The news published on the date January 23, 2024 07:15 AM IST with headline  Momentum mania: 12 new midcap stocks entered the Nifty 200 Momentum 30 Index
 
The news published on the date January 20, 2024 07:06 PM IST with headline  ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund shuffles fund managers at 30 schemes is: 
 As per the notice-cum-addendum to the scheme information documents, Anuj Tagra and Chandni Gupta would no longer be fund managers in their respective schemes. ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited has announced a change in fund managers at 30 of its schemes, including ICICI Prudential Balanced Advantage, ICICI Prudential Liquid, and ICICI Prudential Multi-Asset Fund.As per the notice-cum-addendum to the scheme information documents, Anuj Tagra and Chandni Gupta would no longer be fund managers in their respective schemes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTagra, age 40, has been associated with ICICI Prudential AMC since February 2013. As of December end, the assets under management (AUM) of Tagra were Rs 74,278 crore across various schemes.Gupta, age 38, has been with ICICI Prudential AMC since October 2012. As of December end, the AUM of Gupta were Rs 25,290 crore.As many as 11 schemes managed by Tagra have seen changes in fund managers, effective January 22, 2024. This includes the ICICI Pru Multi-Asset Fund, which will have Sankaran Naren, Ihab Dalwai, Manish Banthia, Akhil Kakkar, Gaurav Chikane, and Sri Sharma as the fund managers.
 
The news published on the date January 20, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  No sales and redemptions at mutual funds to take place today is: 
 A non-business day means that no sales or redemptions are allowed at fund houses. Despite equity markets being open today, Saturday January 20, mutual fund (MF) houses have maintained it as a non-business day today. In simple words, a non-business day means that no sales or redemptions are allowed at fund houses. To be sure, net asset values (NAVs) of funds will be declared today, for their schemes’ corpuses and assets to be valued. But this would be merely academic; no units would be priced (in other words, allotted or redeemed) at today’s NAV, as Saturday January 20 is a non-business day.Exchange-Traded Funds (ETF) on the other hand, will be open for business, as stock markets are open. NAVs of ETFs will also be declared today as ETFs by law have to align their portfolios in line with their benchmark indices by the end of the day. NAVs being declared for ETFs and trading of ETF units at market prices mean that investors will be able to buy and sell ETF units today, January 20, since they are bought directly on the stock exchanges.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis last-minute confusion was caused by the Maharashtra government’s late evening announcement on Friday, January 19 that Monday, January 22 will be declared a public holiday on account of the opening of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Elsewhere- and this has nothing to do with Monday’s holiday - the stock exchanges (the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange) had made a plan to keep the equity markets open today for a few hours to practice the drill to test their disaster recovery management. In the late evening decision taken on Friday- after the state government’s decision- the exchanges decided to keep the equity markets for the full day (9:15 am to 3:30 pm).However, fund houses have decided to keep today, Saturday, as a non-business day. In simple words, if investors transfer money to fund houses with the wish to invest, units will be allotted as per the NAV of the next business day (Tuesday)’s NAV (for all equity and debt funds).Given that Monday has been declared a holiday, here’s how units would now be allotted:
 
The news published on the date January 22, 2024 09:20 AM IST with headline  Just 6% of MF schemes exited HDFC Bank in past 6 months
 
The news published on the date January 22, 2024 10:07 PM IST with headline  HDFC Bank shares crash: Does it show perils of benchmark hugging by equity funds? is: 
 On January 17 and January 18, shares of HDFC Bank slumped more than 11 percent in total, eroding nearly Rs 1.5 trillion of investors' wealth. The sharp 12 percent fall in the share price of HDFC Bank over the last four trading sessions has again raised questions over actively managed mutual funds mirroring their respective benchmarks in the Indian asset management industry.HDFC Bank is among the most-owned stocks in the Indian equity markets. To put things in perspective, there were 539 mutual fund schemes, including active and passive, with a total investment of Rs 2.17 lakh crore in the private sector lender as of December end.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOf this, 420 schemes are actively managed with assets under management (AUM) of Rs 1.36 lakh crore, as per data available with Value Research.This is probably because HDFC Bank has the highest weightage in the Nifty 50 index among all the stocks, at 13.52 percent. These weightages can change with different benchmarks. For example, HDFC Bank has 11.31 percent weightage in the Nifty 100 index and 29.39 percent in the Nifty Bank index.Also read | Is HDFC Bank a safety net for mid-cap and small-cap funds? Not always
 
The news published on the date January 18, 2024 05:45 PM IST with headline  Is HDFC Bank a safety net for mid-cap and small-cap funds? Not always
 
The news published on the date January 18, 2024 10:26 AM IST with headline  Your mutual fund can redeem your money in minutes. Here’s how is: 
 A normal redemption in a liquid or an overnight fund also takes about a day, or two days maximum, to generate cash In December, PPFAS Mutual Fund, India’s 18th largest fund house, with assets worth Rs 57,000 crore, launched the ‘Instant Access Facility’ in its liquid fund, Parag Parikh Liquid Fund. This facility ensures that investors will get money in their bank accounts within a few seconds of applying for redemption. But Parag Parikh Liquid Fund is nothing new; around 11 fund houses already offer this facility. Aditya Birla SunLife, DSP, HDFC, Franklin Templeton and Nippon India are some of the..
 
The news published on the date January 18, 2024 09:05 AM IST with headline  How many workers in India meet Narayana Murthy’s 70-hours-a week benchmark? is: 
 During April-June 2023, 0.1 percent of all workers slogged for more than 84 hours a week Remember Narayana Murthy exhorting youngsters to work 70 hours a week for the greater glory of the nation? Thanks to detailed data from the government’s Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), we now know how many workers in India put in a 70 plus hour work week, how many slackers work for less than half that number of hours, which states have the most industrious workers and where the slackers are to be found and whether men or women work..
 
The news published on the date January 18, 2024 07:59 AM IST with headline  Midcap gems that large-cap funds added lately
 
The news published on the date January 17, 2024 01:35 PM IST with headline  Beaten-down China funds may not be good value-buying bets is: 
 There are five funds in India, focused exclusively on China and these schemes are down more than 20 percent, on average, in a one-year period. At the start of 2023, it was widely believed that the Chinese economy, and, by virtue, global funds that invest in China, would see a rise in their values after the country scrapped its zero-COVID policy and opened its doors.But a series of crises made headlines in China and the year ended pretty badly for it.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs per a Reuters report, China stocks fell sharply on January 17 after data showed that China's economy grew 5.2 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, missing analysts' expectations slightly.Also read | Is Kenneth Andrade's Old Bridge Fund NFO a ticket to high returns or a risky ride? Moneycontrol reviewsChina's blue-chip stock index, CSI300, was down more than 1 percent in early morning trade, hovering near the lowest level since early 2019. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index slumped 2.5 percent.
 
The news published on the date January 18, 2024 10:15 AM IST with headline  Is Kenneth Andrade's Old Bridge Fund NFO a ticket to high returns or a risky ride? Moneycontrol reviews is: 
 The good news is that Andrade comes with a track record of managing such schemes Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge Focused Equity Fund (OBFEF) opens for subscription on January 17. This is the first mutual fund (MF) from Old Bridge Asset Management Ltd, India’s newest and 43rd fund house that was officially launched on January 10. Should you invest? What’s it about? OBFEF is a focused equity fund. This works just like any other diversified equity fund, except that Focused funds can invest in up to 30 stocks, as per the category rules laid down by the..
 
The news published on the date January 16, 2024 07:45 AM IST with headline  In 2024, interest rates will fall. Here’s how to position debt mutual funds is: 
 Investing in debt funds is still a good idea, though the returns would be lower. But the current situation may offer a window to earn more. Debt mutual funds are interesting products that allow one to invest across a spectrum of debt papers and tenures, credit quality and originators.Such MF schemes are well-diversified within sub-categories such as short-term, banking and PSU debt, and corporate debt, based on duration, credit quality and originators.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInvestors used to park money in debt funds because they were more tax efficient than other fixed income options. But the long-term capital gains treatment for debt funds was done away with from April 1, 2023.Investing in debt productsSo, are debt funds no longer a good choice? That’s not true because debt MF schemes offer good diversification, professional portfolio management, carry forward of losses for up to eight years, and excellent liquidity. As financial advisors, we still look at debt funds for investment in portfolios.
 
The news published on the date January 16, 2024 07:02 AM IST with headline  Budget 2024 and mutual funds: Industry hopes for debt taxation relief, parity with ULIPs is: 
 India's mutual fund industry crossed Rs 50 lakh crore in AUM last month. Asset management companies (AMCs) in India want the government to roll back the debt taxation changes in the Interim Budget to be presented on February 1, 2024.In a big blow to mutual fund investors, the government in Finance Act 2023 had decided that capital gains from debt funds and certain other categories of non-equity mutual funds would be taxed at a higher rate.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had suggested that the interim Budget will not feature "spectacular announcements," but the possibility of some adjustments should not be completely dismissed, some experts say.Also read | Bought a necklace this Makar Sankranti? Check if your jewellery has free insurance coverIndia's mutual fund industry, which crossed Rs 50 lakh crore in assets under management (AUM) last month, has an AUM-to-GDP (gross domestic product) ratio of around 15 percent currently, which used to be 7-8 percent, a decade ago. The ratio represents the penetration of mutual funds in India. Experts say more efforts are needed on the part of the government to push this ratio higher.
 
The news published on the date January 15, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  Will India survive the global market turmoil in 2024? Quantum Mutual Fund’s managers think so is: 
 The domestic economy is in good shape with good momentum seen in most macro indicators. The year of 2023 was a rewarding one, and ended on a jolly note for all asset classes. But 2024 is likely to be marked by a global economic slowdown, lower interest rates and geopolitical tensions. Here’s our take on what to expect: Equity: Strong balance sheets, but watch out for volatility First the good news. The domestic economy is in good shape with good momentum seen in most macro indicators. The ongoing economic upcycle is expected to strengthen as inflation cools..
 
The news published on the date January 11, 2024 04:07 PM IST with headline  Explainer: Why spot bitcoin ETF approval by US SEC matters to Indian crypto investors is: 
 The US SEC approved 11 spot bitcoin ETFs, including those by BlackRock, Vanguard, Franklin Templeton, Valkyre, Fidelity and Invesco, on January 10. The Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) approving the spot bitcoin exchange-traded funds (ETFs) in the US has opened a new route for Indians to invest in crypto assets, which offers them taxation benefits as well, according to industry experts.The US capital markets regulator approved 11 spot bitcoin ETFs, including those by BlackRock, Vanguard, Franklin Templeton, Valkyre, Fidelity and Invesco on January 10.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndustry experts believe that these ETFs will bring more stability to the price of bitcoin and liquidity risks will be reduced over time. “Institutional investments will now flow in. We anticipate around $5 billion coming in the next 45 days itself,” said Sidharth Sogani, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of CREBACO, a crypto research firm.Here's why the approval for spot bitcoin ETF is important for Indian crypto investors and policymakers.Can Indians invest in spot bitcoin ETFs?
 
The news published on the date January 11, 2024 07:30 AM IST with headline  How to build a corpus for higher education is: 
 Higher education costs have increased at a CAGR of 10-11 percent. Increasing education costs is an area of significant concern for many parents. Education costs have risen much faster than many parents would have anticipated. For example, an MBA in a premier college in India would have cost you roughly Rs 10 lakh -12 lakh in 2013. Today, enrolling in the same college or institute will mean shelling out Rs 22 lakh -25 lakh.Industry estimates suggest that education inflation in India was around 11-12 percent over the last decade vis-à-vis six percent of Consumer Price Inflation (CPI) during the same period. And this phenomenon will continue in the future as well. As demand increases, the prices will increase sharply. That is precisely the reason why a ‘college fund’ is necessary.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut what is a college fund? As the name suggests, it is an amount kept aside specifically for higher education - to accumulate the money to fund higher education.But how do you create a college fund? This is the step-by-step guide:Step 1: Determine how much it costs to pursue the desired course today.
 
The news published on the date January 10, 2024 06:05 PM IST with headline  Should investors consider arbitrage funds in their portfolio? Simply Save is: 
 Arbitrage schemes, a hybrid fund category, received net inflows of Rs 59,000 crore during 2023, which is highest among all fund categories, according to the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI), the industry trade body for mutual funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn terms of returns, the average of the arbitrage funds category stands at 7.19 percent on a one-year basis. So, what’s behind the bumper inflows to these funds?To listen to the podcast, click above. To read the podcast conversation, scroll down.Arbitrage funds allocate a minimum of 65 percent of their assets in equity and equity-related instruments through spot-futures arbitrage.
 
The news published on the date January 09, 2024 09:25 AM IST with headline  Bulls of D-St charge SIP registrations to hit a record 40.32 lakh in Dec is: 
 In FY24 so far, a total of 1.64 crore investors ended their SIPs compared to 1.43 crore in FY23 and 1.11 crore in FY22. A record 40.32 lakh people registered for systematic investment plans (SIPs) in December riding on the back of a sustained bull run in markets. This was a 31 percent spike over November and a 73.5 percent surge over the last year.A consistent 30 lakh fresh additions every month since July has driven the SIP registrations for FY24 above the the combined figure for FY23 and FY22, according to the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Between April and December 2023, there were 2.85 crore new registrations, surpassing the totals of 2.51 crore and 2.66 crore for the entire FY23 and FY22 respectively.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnalysts said the surge in SIP registrations reflect a reinforced confidence among investors in India's macroeconomic fundamentals and hopes of potential interest rate cuts by the central banks this year. The BJP-led NDA sweep in the recent state elections in Hindi heartland also boosted faith in continuation of policies of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre after the general elections around May this year.If the Modi-led NDA regime returns to power for a third straight time, analysts feel, the conducive government policies will help the Indian economy stay the course to reach its $5-trillion goal. Several brokerages recently raised the Nifty targets for 2024. Nomura sees the benchmark index at 24,260 by the end of 2024, while ICICI Direct forecasts Sensex at 83,000 and the Nifty at 25,000.
 
The news published on the date January 09, 2024 05:55 PM IST with headline  Franklin Templeton veteran Anand Radhakrishnan set to join Sundaram MF as CEO is: 
 Anand Radhakrishnan is set to join Sundaram MF as its CEO around March-April 2024. Anand Radhakrishnan, Chief Investment Officer (CIO), Emerging Market Equities – India at Franklin Templeton (FT) India Asset Management Co Ltd, is said to be joining Sundaram AMC as its Chief Executive Officer (CEO).Two mutual fund industry officials confirmed to Moneycontrol that Sunil Subramaniam, Sundaram AMC’s present CEO, is likely to step down by April 2024, post which Radhakrishnan will take over as the MF’s head. Subramaniam, who is in his early 60s, would most likely retire. An email, phone calls, and a WhatsApp message sent to the communications team at Sundaram AMC went unanswered till publishing time. Radhakrishnan refused to comment.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlthough Radhakrishnan has been with FT AMC since 2004, this would be his second stint with Sundaram MF. He was with Sundaram AMC between 1996 and 2004 as its fund manager. Between 2004 and 2006, he managed the Portfolio Management Services (PMS) strategies at FT AMC before shifting over to managing its MF schemes. Franklin Templeton had already announced Radhakrishnan’s resignation in November 2023; his last day is on January 11. Janakiraman Rengaraju, who was earlier the Deputy CIO & senior portfolio manager, has taken over as CIO, Emerging Market Equities- India at FT India AMC, effective December 1, 2023.Radhakrishnan’s entry in Sundaram AMC as its CEO adds to the niche bunch of fund managers-turned-CEOs, in the Indian AMC industry. Typically, CEOs in the Indian MF industry come from the sales and marketing side, although there has been a fair share of fund managers who go on to become heads of fund houses, too.Changes in the top deck
 
The news published on the date January 09, 2024 07:09 AM IST with headline  Good returns and tax-savings: A winning combo by top tax-saving MFs
 
The news published on the date January 08, 2024 03:37 PM IST with headline  Mutual Fund AUM tops Rs 50 trillion for first time; equity inflows hold steady at Rs 16,997 crore is: 
 Equity mutual funds' net inflows rose 9 percent to Rs 16,997 crore in December. The assets under management of the Indian mutual fund industry rose above Rs 50 trillion (Rs 50 lakh crore) in December thanks to the continuous inflows and rally in Indian equity markets, according to data released by the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI), the industry trade body for mutual funds.Data showed that total assets under management (AUM) under the open-ended schemes stood at Rs 50.80 trillion in December against Rs 48.78 trillion in November 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | Mutual fund industry assets top Rs 50 trillion landmark: what helped achieve this number?The rise in assets of the mutual fund industry has come on the back of rally in equity markets. BSE Sensex rose 7.53 percent in December, while NSE Nifty gained 7.93 percent during the month.Meanwhile, inflows via systematic investment plans (SIPs) also rose to Rs 17,610 crore in December against Rs 17,073 crore in the previous month, underscoring confidence of retail investors.
 
The news published on the date January 08, 2024 12:18 PM IST with headline  Why Axis Mutual Fund CEO B Gopkumar is confident of its turnaround by June 2024 is: 
 B Gopkumar, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Axis Mutual Fund. The year 2023 was eventful for Axis Mutual Fund, the eighth biggest asset management company (AMC) in India with assets of around Rs 2.6 trillion. Post the front-running case where its Chief Dealer was pulled up, first following an internal investigation, and later by the capital markets regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the top management of the fund house has seen an overhaul. Axis Mutual Fund got a new Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer..
 
The news published on the date January 08, 2024 10:21 AM IST with headline  Find the best asset allocation mix that will maximise your returns is: 
 Despite knowing that equities can outperform all other asset classes in the long run, we do not invest all of our money in equities. There are three reasons for this.One: Equity is the most volatile asset class, and not all of us are comfortable with volatility.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwo: It may be the best-performing asset class over the long term, but not all our goals are long-term. We do need money in the short term; some goals are perhaps three to five years away, and we definitely need some liquid cash for emergencies. And so, what if equity markets are down in the dumps when we need our money the most?Three: Diversification helps; when one asset class is down, another is up, and your overall portfolio becomes more consistent.Therefore, this begs the question:
 
The news published on the date January 05, 2024 05:19 PM IST with headline  PPFAS Mutual Fund applies for dynamic asset allocation scheme with SEBI is: 
 The performance of the scheme will be benchmarked against CRISIL Hybrid 50+50 – Moderate Index. Asset management company (AMC) PPFAS Mutual Fund has filed for an open-ended dynamic asset allocation scheme with the capital market regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).Contrary to other fund houses, the 19th biggest AMC offers a limited number of schemes five at present -- Parag Parikh Arbitrage, Parag Parikh Conservative Hybrid, Parag Parikh ELSS Tax Saver, Parag Parikh Flexi Cap and Parag Parikh Liquid Fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe AMC had average assets under management (AUM) of Rs 45,608 crore for the September quarter.Also read | Will mis-selling of insurance stop after consumer affairs ministry’s proposal? Unlikely, say expertsDynamic Asset Allocation (DAA) or Balanced Advantage Fund (BAF) is one of the most popular categories in the Rs 50 trillion Indian mutual fund industry with the category’s total assets under management (AUM) at Rs 2.22 trillion as of November end with 29 schemes.
 
The news published on the date January 05, 2024 11:32 AM IST with headline  What’s common between SG Mart, L&T, Filatex Fashions and Jai Balaji Industries? Big gainers on AMFI list is: 
 There were 63 new names in the top 1,500 companies. The average market capitalisation of listed companies in India rose by 18 percent in the second half of the year ended December 31, according to the classification list released by the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI) on January 4.Mutual funds have to adhere to the classification by market capitalisation, as per the guidelines laid down by the Securities and Exchange Board of India in 2017.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLarge-caps are defined as those ranked 1 to 100 in terms of m-cap, mid-caps are those from 101 to 250, and small-caps from 251. The list is updated twice a year by AMFI.Also read | Chasing multibaggers: 5 stocks that jumped from microcap to midcap in AMFI’s rejigThe classification is based on the average m-cap of listed companies on all exchanges – the BSE, the National Stock Exchange of India, and the Metropolitan Stock Exchange of India – during each six-month period.
 
The news published on the date January 05, 2024 09:56 AM IST with headline  Chasing multibaggers: 5 stocks that jumped from microcap to midcap in AMFI’s rejig
 
The news published on the date January 04, 2024 08:32 AM IST with headline  Momentum continues in value funds: Here are their top newly added stocks
 
The news published on the date January 04, 2024 06:56 AM IST with headline  Jio Financial-BlackRock, Abira Securities file for mutual fund licence with SEBI is: 
 Abira Securities has reapplied for the mutual fund license. Jio Financial Services Ltd & BlackRock Financial Management have filed papers with the capital market regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), to launch mutual fund business in India.The in-principle approval is under consideration with SEBI, as the companies as a joint venture had filed application on October 19, 2023, showed the updated list of the mutual fund applications as on December 31, 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurther, Abira Securities has reapplied for the mutual fund license. Established in 2012, Abira Securities is a Kolkata-based stock broking house. Abira had earlier applied for MF licence in April 2022, but its name was missing in the subsequent lists.Also read | After 15% rise, Tata Mutual Fund launches gold schemes. Is it too late?Meanwhile, Angel One limited had already been granted in-principle approval on February 8, 2023, while approval for final registration is under consideration with the regulator.
 
The news published on the date January 03, 2024 01:58 PM IST with headline  After 15% rise, Tata Mutual Fund launches gold schemes. Is it too late? is: 
 Investing in precious metals offers diversification for your portfolio and long-term stability. Tata Asset Management has launched four new schemes - two exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and two fund of funds (FOFs) – based on silver and gold. The new fund offers (NFOs) for four ETFs and FOFs opened on January 2. However, while ETFs will close for subscription on January 9, FOFs will remain open till January 16. The launch of funds comes in the backdrop of a 15 percent rise in gold prices on a one-year period, while silver has underperformed with..
 
The news published on the date January 02, 2024 09:22 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: The froth in small and mid cap stocks is: 
 Small cap mutual funds The small and mid-cap mutual funds are attracting a disproportionate amount of equity mutual fund inflows. Net inflows into small cap mutual funds surged 87 percent to Rs 37,200 crore in calendar year 2023 till November, the fastest rise among different categories of equity mutual funds. About 25 percent or one in every four rupees invested in equity mutual funds found its way into small cap funds in 2023. (image) Together, the small and mid-cap fund received as much as..
 
The news published on the date January 02, 2024 08:10 AM IST with headline  Sector and themes of 2023: Can the winners do an encore in 2024?
 
The news published on the date January 02, 2024 09:47 AM IST with headline  Financial Forecast: Four changes to watch out for in January is: 
 Submit proof of your tax-saving investments in January to your employer. The new year is set to usher in a string of changes with respect to your personal finance. From a new format of the customer information sheet (CIS) of insurance companies, to mutual fund trustees having to ensure that fees and expenses charged by fund houses are fair, here are the key financial developments you ought to bear in mind.Insurance companies to issue customer information sheet in a new formatStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEffective January 1, insurance companies will have to provide their health insurance policyholders with an updated customer information sheet (CIS).The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has mandated a new format for the CIS, to be provided along with policy documents at the time of purchase and renewal. The purpose is to provide a quick summary of the crucial policy terms in simple language.The new CIS will specify the sum insured or cover amount under individual as well as family floater policies. It will contain information on the benefits you are entitled to under your policy and the conditions under which they will come into play. Insurance companies will have to mention the turn-around time for paying out claims and pre-authorising cashless payouts, and it will contain a list of all exclusions, which will ensure that customers do not face heartburn due to non-payment of any expense at the time of claim processing. Lastly, it will have details on grievance redressal, portability, and the moratorium period.
 
The news published on the date December 28, 2023 08:46 AM IST with headline  Beating the market rollercoaster with longer term investments is: 
 When you are giving it adequate time, cycles go up and down, you ride it, and eventually go home with adequate returns. The focus of discussions on the market nowadays is oriented around the current valuation levels and the great growth story of our economy. It has been discussed on various platforms that a long investment horizon is required from now on. That is very much the case. Now let us look at it through the perspective of data which will give you the rationale, why a long horizon is required, particularly when valuation levels are not cheap. Data We have data on..
 
The news published on the date December 28, 2023 07:18 AM IST with headline  10 midcap stocks that rewarded MF investors in 2023
 
The news published on the date December 28, 2023 07:14 AM IST with headline  Inside the record year for India’s $585 billion Mutual Funds industry is: 
 Inside the record year for India’s $585 billion Mutual Funds industry A record surge in assets under management. More than 20 million new investment accounts added. And a planned return by BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager.These are some of the milestones that mark what’s set to be a blockbuster year for India’s mutual funds industry. Powered by an insatiable thirst for financial gains, millions of young Indians armed with smartphones have taken to equity investments in the world’s most-populous nation. That’s helped boost fund assets by 19% in the first 11 months of 2023, data from Morningstar Inc. show, beating major peers like the US, Japan and China.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs the unforeseen gift of a pandemic-led boom in retail investing keeps on giving, and India’s $4.1 trillion equity market continues to grow — benchmark indexes are poised to cap a record eighth year of gains — industry veterans see mutual funds attracting a bigger slice of households’ financial assets in the years to come. Their share was under 9% as of March this year, versus about 45% for bank deposits. Mutual Funds“This year has been a turning point, a major qualitative shift,” said Dhirendra Kumar, New Delhi-based head of independent investment research firm Value Research Ltd., which has been advising mutual fund investors for three decades. “We have seen a democratization of investments in the sense that anyone who isn’t taking part feels like he or she is missing out.”
 
The news published on the date December 27, 2023 07:20 PM IST with headline  SEBI extends Dec 31 deadline for mutual fund and demat account nomination is: 
 As per a circular issued on December 27, SEBI has extended the last date for nomination to June 30, 2024. With barely a few days left for the December 31 deadline for mutual fund (MF) and stock market investors to complete nomination for their investments, the securities market regulator SEBI yet again extended this deadline.As per a circular issued on December 27, the regulator has extended the last date to June 30, 2024. By this date, investors must either choose a nominee/s or explicitly opt out of nomination by submitting a declaration.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Based on representations received from the market participants, for ease of compliance and investor convenience, it has been decided to extend the last date for submission of ‘choice of nomination’ for demat accounts and mutual fund folios to June 30, 2024,” said the SEBI circular.This is not the first time the deadline has been extended. Even a few months ago as the September 30 deadline approached, SEBI pushed this further to December 31. With many investor failing to complete their nomination on time, the deadline extension saves them from the problem of their MF folios or demat accounts being frozen for debits. That is, investors would not be able to make redemptions/ withdrawals from their MF folios / demat accounts if they had failed to complete the nomination process.According to numbers from the registrar and transfer agent (RTA) CAMS, about 25 lakh PAN holders had not updated nomination in their MF folios as of September-end 2023. An email sent to CAMS asking for the latest data remained unanswered.
 
The news published on the date December 27, 2023 07:58 AM IST with headline  This debt fund is a winner, and not just when interest rates start to fall. Here’s why is: 
 Government Securities' mutual fund schemes should be part of your asset allocation When interest rates fall—and experts predict the cuts will begin some time in 2024—debt funds will gain. Buried among 16 fixed income mutual fund (MF) categories is a tiny category of funds that stands to gain the most; Government Securities funds or G-sec funds or gilt funds. But contrary to popular belief, G-sec funds don’t just benefit when interest rates fall. A Moneycontrol Personal Finance analysis shows that they can make just as much money for you if you hold..
 
The news published on the date December 27, 2023 07:51 AM IST with headline  Behind the barrier: Understanding the regulations impacting mutual fund investments for NRIs is: 
 To invest in the Indian MF market, NRIs need to open an NRO or NRE bank account with an Indian bank. Many Indians move abroad in the hope of securing a better future for their families back home. Harbouring the dream of ensuring the financial well-being of their loved ones, making investments in India proves to be a smart option for them. With a plethora of investment options ranging from equities and mutual funds (MFs) to fixed deposits (FDs) and debt funds, the investment landscape in India holds immense promise.As one of the emerging economies in the world, the Government of India has allowed non-resident Indians (NRIs) to invest in MFs in conjunction with the Securities and Exchange Board of India's (SEBI) rules of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), ensuring that the investment process is transparent. However, it is important to note that certain asset management companies (AMCs) don’t accept MF applications from NRIs based in Canada and the US.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDecoding the MF investment process in India for NRIs To invest in the Indian MF market, NRIs need to open an NRO or NRE bank account with an Indian bank. Since AMCs are not allowed to accept investments in foreign currencies, NRI investments are made in Indian rupees, easing the entire investment and return process.To enter the Indian mutual fund market, NRIs can proceed in two different ways. In the direct procedure, they can initiate the process on their own by submitting their application with the required know-your-customer (KYC) details indicating whether the investment is on a repatriable or non-repatriable basis. In case the bank requires in-person verification, they need to comply by visiting the Indian embassy in their resident country with the required documents.
 
The news published on the date December 27, 2023 07:58 PM IST with headline  Sebi extends mutual fund nomination deadline to June 2024 is: 
 Updating nomination in a jointly-held MF folio requires the consent of all the joint holders. Thanks to Securities and Exchange Board of India's (SEBI) last-minute deadline extension on December 27, mutual fund (MF) investors have time until June 30, 2024 for completing/updating their MF nominations.It was in June 2022 when the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) made nomination mandatory for all new MF investments made from August 1, 2022. The deadline for completing nomination for existing MF investments was fixed as March 31, 2023. Investors would have to either choose a nominee/s or opt out of the nomination by way of a signed declaration form by the set deadline.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBased on representation from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), the deadline for compulsory nomination for all new investments was extended from August to October 2022. And then, as existing MF unitholders, especially those with jointly held investments, struggled to complete their nomination, the deadline was extended, first from March 31 to September 30 and then to December 31, 2023.If you still haven’t completed your MF nominations, this week is your last chance to do so. Failure to do so would result in your MF folios being frozen for any debits. That is, you will not be able to redeem/make withdrawals from any of these folios but you can continue investing in them.According to the registrar and transfer agent (RTA) CAMS, about 25 lakh PAN holders had not updated their nomination as of September-end 2023. An email sent to CAMS asking for the latest data remained unanswered.
 
The news published on the date December 27, 2023 10:13 AM IST with headline  Mutual fund industry assets top Rs 50 trillion landmark: what helped achieve this number? is: 
 The Indian mutual fund industry’s total assets under management (AUM) have crossed the Rs 50 trillion mark in December 2023 in the 60th year of its existence, industry insiders say. The official industry numbers on AUM will be released by the industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India in January. The MF industry’s AUM had reached Rs 49.04 trillion in November 2023, already. Experts say that the recent equity market rally has carried the MF industry past the landmark. Mutual..
 
The news published on the date December 25, 2023 07:00 AM IST with headline  Tax-Saving FDs: These largest banks offer up to 7% interest rate
 
The news published on the date December 22, 2023 04:01 PM IST with headline  Why this large smallcap fund is not worried despite the frothy markets is: 
 Smallcap funds have received net inflows of Rs 37,178 crore since January 2023. B. Gopkumar, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Axis Mutual Fund, feels there is room for further upside in the smallcap space, and they are comfortable with the valuations of the stocks they are holding. The Axis Small Cap Fund, with assets of nearly Rs 18,000 crore, is the fourth-biggest scheme in the category. It is preceded by the Nippon India Small Cap Fund (Rs 41,019 crore), HDFC Small Cap (Rs 25,409 crore), and SBI Small Cap Fund (Rs 22,895..
 
The news published on the date December 23, 2023 10:46 AM IST with headline  Most sold mid-cap stocks by active fund managers in November
 
The news published on the date December 21, 2023 07:01 AM IST with headline  Sebi should widen definitions to increase number of large and mid-cap stocks is: 
 Shree OSFM E-Mobility: The company will list its equity shares on the NSE Emerge on December 21. The issue price is Rs 65 per share. Its equity shares will be available for trading in the trade-for-trade segment. The best thing to come out of the exercise that the capital market regulator undertook in 2018 to re-categorise mutual funds was standardisation. The definition of large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap funds was standardised so that all equity funds could follow the same definition.Advances in the equity markets have led to an increase in the market capitalisation of each of these groups of stocks. But the number of these stocks in each of these baskets has remained the same.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPerhaps the time has come for the Securities and Exchange Board of India to expand the baskets. Here’s why.The size of the problemAs per the current rules, here’s what a large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap stocks look like:Large-cap: The 100 largest listed stocks by market capitalisationMid-cap: Stocks ranked between 101 and 250 by market capitalisationSmall-cap: Stocks ranked 251 and onwards by market capitalisationThe Association of Mutual Funds of India has to update this list every six months, based on data provided by the stock exchanges.
 
The news published on the date January 10, 2024 11:09 AM IST with headline  Year Ender 2023: Some giveth, some taketh for mutual fund investors | Simply Save is: 
 If you have been investing in mutual funds, then 2023 was an action-packed year. But things did not look as rosy when the year began as the Union Budget took away taxation benefits on debt mutual funds, impacting their appeal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo listen to the podcast, click above. To read the podcast conversation, scroll down.As a result, hybrid funds came in the limelight, with this category receiving net inflows of over Rs 85,000 crore since April.Despite the taxation setback, the Indian mutual funds industry has most likely crossed the historic Rs 50 lakh-crore milestone in terms of assets under management. By the end of November, it had been managing Rs 49 lakh crore; December-end figures would be made public only in the first week of 2024.
 
The news published on the date December 20, 2023 09:10 AM IST with headline  “Strong buy” smallcap stocks by PMS in November
 
The news published on the date December 19, 2023 07:37 AM IST with headline  Do Arbitrage funds score over Debt funds post abolition of LTCG and indexation benefits? is: 
 Those in lower tax brackets and limited investments can pick debt funds to keep things simple. Arbitrage funds have seen a lot of inflows lately, primarily because of the removal of adverse tax changes to debt funds in 2023.Arbitrage funds behave as debt funds (have a similar return profile), and are interestingly taxed as equity funds, which is lower compared to debt funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe big question is: Should you switch from debt funds to arbitrage funds?What are arbitrage funds?Arbitrage funds need to invest a minimum of 65 percent of their corpus in equity-related instruments to qualify for equity taxation. However, since these funds work on the arbitrage principle, they buy stocks in the cash market and simultaneously sell in the futures market at a different price, thereby offsetting the entire net equity position. They also hold about 35 percent in debt instruments. This structure makes arbitrage funds a comparatively low-risk option.
 
The news published on the date December 19, 2023 07:37 AM IST with headline  Five sectors that Mahesh Patil of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund likes is: 
 Mahesh Patil, Chief Investment Officer (CIO) at Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC. Mahesh Patil, Chief Investment Officer (CIO) at Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, believes that factors such as high interest rates, inflation, geopolitical tensions, and oil prices are less of a concern today, as India remains a relatively good growth market. Patil, who is one of the longest-serving fund managers in India, oversees more than Rs 3 lakh crore of assets under management (AUM). With mid- and small-caps rising around 40 percent in 2023, the fund manager believes that some money might..
 
The news published on the date December 18, 2023 08:03 AM IST with headline  Explained: How Systematic Withdrawal Plans help you earn a steady retirement income is: 
 Creating an effective SWP strategy involves more than just deciding the withdrawal amount. Whether the S&P BSE Sensex is at 70,000 or 30,000, we always advise that you continue with your investments and not try to time the markets. The importance of accumulating wealth through Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) is well-acknowledged. But an often overlooked, yet equally crucial, aspect is the strategy for withdrawing these funds. Here is where Systematic Withdrawal Plans (SWPs) helps. This important tool serves as a critical instrument for managing income during one's retirement years. What are SWPs? An SWP can be..
 
The news published on the date December 18, 2023 09:44 AM IST with headline  Sensex @ 71,000; How larger asset equity MF schemes tweaked their portfolio
 
The news published on the date December 18, 2023 09:07 AM IST with headline  Sovereign Gold Bond 2023-24 Series III opens today: Should you invest? is: 
 SGBs applied for under the 2023-2024 Series III will be issued on December 28. The new series for Sovereign Gold Bond (SGB) scheme opened for investment on December 18 and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has set the issue price at Rs 6,199 per gram of gold.The launch of SGB Scheme 2023-2024 Series III has come on the back of gold prices increasing by more than 10 percent in 2023 and defying expectations amid a high interest rate environment. Given the run-up in prices, should investors go for this series or wait for the next one, which will open in February?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe public issue of SGB Scheme 2023-2024 Series III will close on December 22.What’s on offer?The price of the SGB is fixed on the basis of a simple average of closing price of gold of 999 purity, published by the India Bullion and Jewellers Association (IBJA) for the last three working days of the week preceding the subscription period.
 
The news published on the date December 15, 2023 07:08 AM IST with headline  Small-cap, Innovation, logistics: Hot stocks that recently launched NFOs invest in
 
The news published on the date December 14, 2023 11:00 AM IST with headline  Sensex @70,000: How to book profit is: 
 Financial advisors said that just because the markets have run up, it isn’t reason enough to sell everything indiscriminately. When the equity markets touch new highs, conventional wisdom says you must not panic – your systematic investment plans (SIP) must continue, your investment plan should also continue. But what should you do if you need the money? Say, your financial goals are approaching or you could do with a holiday and you’d like to take some money off the table. That’s the question some investors are asking these days. The S&P BSE Sensex has gained 14 percent so far this..
 
The news published on the date December 13, 2023 12:15 PM IST with headline  Where to invest Rs 10 lakh today, after Sensex crossed 70,000-mark? is: 
 While the right asset allocation is important, investors should also keep in the mind the importance of right insurance cover and adequate emergency funds. The benchmark Sensex reached a significant milestone by crossing the 70,000 mark on December 11. However, it is important for investors to remember that investing is a journey with a focus on the long term. This implies that short-term market fluctuations should be considered within the broader context of long-term investment goals and strategies.Indian equities have shown positive performance in the past year, and gold prices have also witnessed a rally. Additionally, fixed-income investments appear attractive as interest rates are currently at a peak.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBefore making significant investments in shares, experts recommend assessing your risk profile and understanding the purpose of your savings.“Resist chasing short-term gains and avoid investing based on emotions. Resist the urge to make impulsive decisions based on market noise. Stick to your investment plan and avoid making emotional trades,” said Nitin Rao, chief executive officer of InCred Wealth.“Also, maintain a diversified portfolio and ensure proper debt allocation to mitigate potential losses. Don't abandon your long-term asset allocation strategy in pursuit of short-term gains.”
 
The news published on the date December 12, 2023 07:30 AM IST with headline  Start looking at fixed-income funds a lot more actively now: Anthony Heredia, Mahindra Manulife MF is: 
 Anthony Heredia, Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Mahindra Manulife Mutual Fund. Anthony Heredia, Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Mahindra Manulife Mutual Fund, believes that the Indian economy is at a point where there are opportunities across all sectors. The head of India’s 25th biggest asset management company (AMC) (as per average assets under management for the September quarter), suggests that if a person has Rs 10 lakh, a large part of that money can go into multi-asset funds, which invest across equity, debt, and commodities. In an interview..
 
The news published on the date December 11, 2023 07:15 AM IST with headline  Small-cap stocks with innovative business models that mutual funds love to hold
 
The news published on the date December 11, 2023 10:34 AM IST with headline  ESG Investing: Fund houses need to be more than accountable is: 
 The portfolio holdings across ESG schemes are similar to those of non-ESG schemes, prompting questions about their distinctiveness. Investors should be able to drill down to see what’s under the hood of these ESG strategies – US Securities and Exchange Commission chairperson Gary Gensler. May 25, 2022. This statement captures the essence of accountability that mutual fund houses offering ESG (environmental, social and governance) schemes must have towards investors. Fund houses across the world are pioneering green financing—the much-needed responsible investing to make earth a better place by supporting companies that are: cutting carbon emissions, promoting water sustainability, engaging in community..
 
The news published on the date December 10, 2023 12:45 PM IST with headline  SEBI working with mutual funds to make Rs 250 SIPs viable: Madhabi Puri Buch is: 
 SEBI is also considering a new asset class that will cater to high-risk investors. Smaller systematic investment plans (SIPs) in mutual funds can lead to greater financial inclusion and lay the foundation for future growth as well as greater resilience of Indian equity markets, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch has said.Speaking at an event hosted by Business Today, Buch said the capital markets regulator was working with mutual fund houses to make Rs 250 SIP viable for the industry.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We are working with them to see where is that cost and what SEBI can do to facilitate in making it possible to bring that viability down to Rs 250 a month. Then it would be equivalent to what Hindustan Unilever did with shampoo sashes. It will bring in financial inclusion and, equally importantly, it will give strength to our markets,” SEBI chairperson said.Also read | Monetary Policy: RBI improves economic projections…how soon will rate cuts follow?SIP works on the principle of regular investments. It is like your recurring deposit where you put in a small amount every month. It allows you to invest in a mutual fund by making smaller periodic investments (monthly or quarterly) in place of a heavy one-time investment.
 
The news published on the date December 08, 2023 06:17 PM IST with headline  Equity fund inflows hold steady; mutual fund industry AUM nears Rs 50 trillion landmark is: 
 The steady flows into equity mutual funds came amid strong domestic equity markets. During November, BSE Sensex rose 4.87 percent, while Nifty gained 5.52 percent. Equity-oriented mutual funds recorded a 22 percent decline in funds flow in November, still witnessing the 33rd straight month of net inflows, according to data released by the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI), the industry trade body for mutual funds.The segment recorded net investments of Rs 15,536.42 crore, which was 22.15 percent lower than Rs 19,957.17 crore recorded in October.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe equity segment was also aided by six new fund launches in November which garnered Rs 1,907 crore. None of the equity categories witnessed net outflows during the month.The steady flows into equity mutual funds came amid strong domestic equity markets. During November, BSE Sensex climbed 4.87 percent, while the Nifty gained 5.52 percent.“Diwali festivities and bank holidays, probably affected equity net flows in November. Flows continued in multi-asset allocation category schemes where timing is left to the underlying schemes. SIPs continue to attract new investors with increasing awareness of benefits of SIP and mutual funds,” said Manish Mehta Head - Sales, Marketing & Digital Business, Kotak Mutual Fund.
 
The news published on the date December 08, 2023 02:02 PM IST with headline  Time to invest in long-term debt funds, say experts as RBI keeps interest rates steady is: 
 RBI’s stance in its monetary policy announced on December 8, was on expected lines. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), on December 8, decided to leave the repo rate unchanged at 6.5 percent for the fifth time in a row. Experts say that this is good news for debt funds. As and when interest rates start to go down - which many experts say would begin in the middle of 2024- debt funds’ net asset value (NAV) would go up.Interest rates and prices of debt securities move in opposite directions. A fall in interest rates pushes up the prices of debt securities and thereby, the NAVs of debt funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA status quo, yet againRBI’s stance in its monetary policy, announced on December 8, was on expected lines. While retail inflation has cooled off below the 6 percent tolerance limit, the MPC hasn’t achieved its medium-term target of 4 percent. Over the past few months, Consumer Price Index (CPI) based headline inflation has moderated to 4.9 percent in October from 7.4 percent in July.Also read | No impact on home loan interest rates for now, as RBI leaves repo rate unchanged
 
The news published on the date December 08, 2023 12:22 PM IST with headline  Sebi looking at creating new asset class between mutual fund and PMS, says Madhabi Puri Buch is: 
 SEBI chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch. The capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is considering a new asset class that will cater to high-risk investors, SEBI chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch said on December 8.Moneycontrol wrote on November 25 that the SEBI had initiated the process and put forward the proposal to the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI), the Rs 47 trillion mutual fund industry trade body.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBuch was speaking at the CII Global Economic Policy Forum in Delhi.The market regulator has been concerned about retail investors seeking unsolicited advice. They often turn to unregistered advisers who run illegal or quasi Portfolio Management Services (PMS) in the garb of investment advice and end up putting their money in risky investments or strategies.As equity markets have surged in the last few years, retail investors have entered the market in big numbers especially after the coronavirus outbreak.
 
The news published on the date December 07, 2023 09:42 AM IST with headline  2024 General Elections: Does it make sense to pause your SIPs till the results? is: 
 Given the results in the recent state elections, Dalal Street is confident of a BJP win in the general election in April-May 2024. Equity markets are not a big fan of uncertainty. So, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) winning big in the three key states of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Chhattisgarh, the bulls on Dalal Street have heaved a sigh of relief. Both the BSE Sensex and Nifty 50 have rallied for a third straight day and hit fresh record highs on December 6. Given the results in the recent state elections, Dalal Street is confident of a BJP win in the general..
 
The news published on the date December 07, 2023 11:43 AM IST with headline  Mid-cap mania: These ULIPs deliver up to 26% returns in the last 5 years
 
The news published on the date December 06, 2023 12:48 PM IST with headline  DSP MF’s new scheme aims to reduce risks in small-cap investing: A Moneycontrol review is: 
 The fund house believes that at a time like this, when small- and mid- cap stocks have risen sharply and consistently over the last year and a half, a more prudent approach to investing is required at this point At a time when the S&P BSE Small Cap index has given a 1-year return of 37.4 percent, as against the S&P BSE Sensex’s 10 percent, DSP Mutual Fund has launched a new small-cap fund. The fund house says it’s just the right time for this (yet another) small-cap fund. What’s on offer? DSP Nifty Smallcap250 Quality 50 Index Fund (DNQ50) is a first-of-its-kind fund. This is an index fund—a passively-managed scheme—that will invest in small-cap stocks. There are already nine..
 
The news published on the date December 05, 2023 12:32 PM IST with headline  Budget@10: Tax burden rises on mutual fund gains, but exemption limit increases is: 
 From June 30, 2014, the assets under management (AUM) of mutual funds have grown to Rs 44.39 lakh crore as of June 30, 2023 from Rs 9.75 lakh crore. The past nine full-fledged budgets have been a mixed bag for Indian mutual fund investors. During this period, mutual funds have penetrated well into the hinterland and with that came the rationalisation of taxes. From June 30, 2014, the assets under management (AUM) of mutual funds have grown to Rs 44.39 lakh crore as of June 30, 2023 from Rs 9.75 lakh crore. The AUM as of September end was Rs 46.57 lakh crore, according to the Association of Mutual..
 
The news published on the date December 04, 2023 09:12 AM IST with headline  To get multibaggers, you have to buy into absolute stupidity: Siddhartha Bhaiya, MD, Aequitas PMS is: 
 The pursuit of multi-bagger stocks is a quest for many investors. But few have got it right. Siddhartha Bhaiya, Managing Director & Chief Investment Officer of Aequitas Investment Consultancy, a portfolio management services firm has a decent track record of picking multibaggers. His PMS strategy ‘India Opportunities Product’ has given a return of 38 percent annual return over the last 10 years. Bhaiya has over 21 years of experience into equity research and fund management. He founded Aequitas Investments in..
 
The news published on the date December 04, 2023 07:01 AM IST with headline  Which equity fund categories should you invest in? is: 
 There are close to 40 categories in the Indian mutual funds ecosystem, out of which 12 are equity. While the Securities and Exchange Board of India has done well to identify different mutual fund categories, at times, it can be very difficult for investors to decide which equity mutual fund categories to choose from.There are close to 40 categories in the Indian mutual funds ecosystem, out of which 12 are equity. On top of that, there are 2 more hybrid funds that invest substantially in equity investments; these are also used as low-risk substitutes for equity funds. In other words, you have a wide variety. And with such a wide variety, comes confusion about what to choose and what to avoid.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo be fair, while every category may have its use cases, all of them are not required by most investors. So which ones to choose? How to identify which equity fund categories to pick schemes from?Here we discuss category decisions for Balanced to Moderately Aggressive investors, who are fine investing 50-70 percent of their portfolio in equity. Also, it is assumed that such investors are willing to remain invested for at least 5 years (or more) in mutual funds.Passive Large-cap Index Funds
 
The news published on the date December 04, 2023 03:15 PM IST with headline  Small Cap Investing Is Not The Magic Solution: Rajeev Thakkar, PPFAS Mutual Fund is: 
 PPFAS annual unitholders' meet Hyderabad-based Dhananjaya Ponukumati, 41, was one of the nearly 900 unitholders of PPFAS Mutual Fund who attended its annual unitholders’ meet at Birla Matushree Sabhaghar in south Mumbai on December 2. PPFAS is India’s 19th largest mutual fund (MF) firm with assets worth Rs 49,344 crore.At this annual affair, PPFAS invites its unitholders to meet the fund managers and ask practically anything about the company’s schemes — why the fund house bought a stock, sold it, why it typically avoids investing in Initial Public Offerings (IPOs), its cash calls, and so on. Although this was Dhananjaya’s first in-person visit to the annual event, he has watched all the earlier events live on YouTube.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKumar Appaiah, 38, an IIT-Bombay Professor, had also come to hear PPFAS’s fund managers talk. Appaiah invests his savings in just four equity funds, three of which are passively managed. The Parag Parikh Flexi Cap Fund (PPFCF), the company’s flagship scheme, is the only actively managed scheme he holds. Appaiah has been an investor at PPFAS for the last six years. He says that all his money is in equities because he’s a central government employee, and a portion of his salary automatically gets invested in the National Pension Scheme. Since the NPS comes with a lock-in, Appaiah invests in equity funds to meet his liquidity needs.PPFAS MF is perhaps the only India-based fund house that calls its unitholders and opens itself up for questioning. It’s a rare opportunity for unitholders to meet their fund managers, and many investors didn’t miss the opportunity to click selfies with the management, particularly Rajeev Thakkar, the fund house’s Chief Investment Officer, Neil Parag Parikh, the Chief Executive Officer, and Raunak Onkar, Fund Manager, and Head-Research. The trio were joined on stage by Raj Mehta, Fund Manager, and Rukun Tarachandani, Fund Manager-Equity.The year 2023 has been good for the fund house, after a tough 2022. PPFCF has given a return of 30 percent so far this year, as against the category average of 20 percent, and its benchmark Nifty 500 index’s 17.5 percent returns. With assets of Rs 44,038 crore, PPFCF is now the second largest actively managed equity scheme in India. But does a large corpus make the fund sluggish?
 
The news published on the date December 01, 2023 12:57 PM IST with headline  Axis India Manufacturing Fund new fund review: Should you invest? is: 
 The fund will follow a bottom-up approach with a multi-cap stock selection strategy. Axis Mutual Fund, India’s eighth-biggest asset management company (AMC), has expanded its range of thematic funds with the launch of a manufacturing fund. Manufacturing is a relatively new category for mutual funds – there are only four active schemes with this theme. What’s on offer? The latest offering by Axis Mutual Fund is an open-ended equity scheme that represents the Indian manufacturing theme and will be benchmarked against the Nifty India Manufacturing Total Return Index. Also read | Budget@10: AIS, avoidance of double..
 
The news published on the date December 03, 2023 09:51 AM IST with headline  Powering small-cap funds: Stocks in top holding that drive performance
 
The news published on the date December 01, 2023 12:07 PM IST with headline  Seven financial changes that may impact you this December is: 
 December 31, 2023, is the last day to file revised returns or belated returns if you haven't yet filed them by the original deadline of July 31, 2023. This December mutual fund holders, equity investors, and individuals may have to attend to several crucial deadlines and changes on the financial front.Mutual fund holders and equity investors need to provide nominations or opt-out before December 31, while those having bank lockers need to sign and submit a revised locker agreement to their bank before the last date. There are changes to lounge access on HDFC Bank’s Regalia credit card within India. Also, December is the last month for users who have not updated their Aadhaar for 10 years to complete the process. During the month, you need to pay the third advance tax instalment and file your revised or belated returns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLet's look a little closer at the changes in December 2023 that could impact you.Nomination for existing individual investors by December 31Providing nomination or opting-out confirmation has already been mandated in the case of new mutual fund (MF) investors for folios created from January 1, 2024. Nominations in the case of investors where folios were created prior to January 1, 2024, must be complied with on or before December 31 by either submitting nominee details or by providing opt-out declaration.
 
The news published on the date November 29, 2023 07:10 PM IST with headline  Why hybrid mutual funds are gaining currency? | Simply Save is: 
 The hybrid mutual fund category, which invests in a mix of asset classes, such as stocks and bonds, and at times, gold and silver, has seen net inflows of more than Rs 72,000 crore since April. This was in the backdrop of outflows in the previous months.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo listen to the podcast, click above. To read the podcast script, scroll down.There are six categories under hybrid funds: Conservative Hybrid, Balanced Hybrid /Aggressive Hybrid, Dynamic Asset Allocation (DAA)/Balanced Advantage Fund (BAF), Multi Asset Allocation, Arbitrage, and Equity Savings funds.Also read | In his own words: What PPFAS Mutual Fund’s Rajeev Thakkar learnt from Charlie Munger
 
The news published on the date November 29, 2023 02:09 PM IST with headline  In his own words: What PPFAS Mutual Fund’s Rajeev Thakkar learnt from Charlie Munger is: 
 One of the phrases that Munger would often repeat was, “To a man with a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.” The passing away of Charlie Munger has surprised most of us. While he was surely at an advanced age, people were looking forward to him turning 100 on January 1, 2024. To use a cricket analogy, it is like your favourite batsman getting out on 99.While Charlie Munger was one of the all-time investing greats along with Warren Buffett, it would be a mistake to look at him purely through the investing lens. Learnings from Munger apply to various facets of human life.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere are a few things that I learnt from him.A polymathOne of the phrases that Munger would often repeat was, “To a man with a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.”
 
The news published on the date November 28, 2023 02:36 PM IST with headline  Can SGBs continue to outperform gold funds? is: 
 The price for the final redemption of Sovereign Gold Bonds-2015-Series-I has been set at Rs 6,132 per unit of SGB. The first issue of sovereign gold bonds (SGBs), which are coming up for maturity on November 30, has managed to outperform other forms of investment avenues based on the precious metal.The price for the final redemption of Sovereign Gold Bonds-2015-Series-I has been set at Rs 6,132 per unit of SGB, which is based on the simple average of closing price of gold for the week November 20-24, 2023. The first tranche was issued at a price of Rs 2,684 per gram in 2015.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdReturns matrixData compiled by Moneycontrol showed that SGB-2015-Series-I has delivered 12.9 percent Extended Internal Rate of Return (XIRR) since its launch on November 30, 2015.The simple rate of return based on the issue price and the redemption price comes to 10.88 percent.
 
The news published on the date November 28, 2023 01:01 PM IST with headline  Mutual Fund Lite regulations in final stages; SEBI may issue consultation paper soon is: 
 Experts say that another possible relaxation from SEBI might come by way of a lower minimum networth to set up an asset management company. ‘MF Lite’, a set of less stringent Mutual Fund (MF) regulations by capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), have inched closer to being finalised, said three MF industry officials who are aware of the developments. These officials refused to be identified. The MF Lite regulations were recently cleared by SEBI's MF advisory committee. This is a crucial stage before SEBI announces any major new policy.SEBI has been deliberating on MF LITE regulations as part of ease of doing business, one of its key objectives. The regulator has felt that fund houses in the Rs 47 trillion Indian mutual funds (MF) industry that do not wish to launch actively managed MF schemes do not require to be monitored as closely as the rest. Passive MF schemes do not carry a fund manager risk; their only job is to replicate market returns. These schemes invest their entire corpses, and in exactly the same proportion, in their benchmark indices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEase in regulations“MF Lite will co-exist with the present SEBI MF Regulations, 1996,” said the first of the three people quoted above. It is learnt that fund houses who wish to register themselves under MF Lite, would not be required to seek SEBI approvals before the launch of every scheme. These funds are also likely to be absolved of periodic disclosure, required under the present SEBI MF regulations.Fund managers of houses registered under MF Lite might also not be required to record their telephone conversations during market hours, unlike under current regulations.
 
The news published on the date November 28, 2023 05:58 AM IST with headline  Investors strike it rich as first sovereign gold bonds come up for maturity is: 
 Gold bonds to mature on November 30. Investors in the first tranche of sovereign gold bonds (SGBs) that are coming up for maturity have struck gold. When the issue matures on November 30, investors would have made 10.88 percent CAGR returns.As per a recent Reserve Bank of India (RBI) notification, the price for the final redemption would be Rs 6,132 per unit of SGB, which is based on the simple average closing price of gold for the week of November 20-24, 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe first tranche was issued at a price of Rs 2,684 per gram in 2015.Also read | Where to invest Rs 10 lakh today? Trust Mutual Fund’s Sandeep Bagla has a 5-year planOn top of this, these bonds also gave an interest at the rate of 2.75 percent (fixed rate) per annum. This fixed coupon was revised to 2.5 percent in later issues of sovereign gold bonds.
 
The news published on the date November 28, 2023 08:41 AM IST with headline  Removal of debt tax benefit is fuelling equity market rally: Trust Mutual Fund’s Sandeep Bagla is: 
 Sandeep Bagla, Chief Executive Officer, Trust Mutual Fund After being a debt focussed mutual fund house since its launch in 2018, the Rs 1,185-crore Trust Mutual Fund – India’s 38th largest – is ready to launch equity funds. In October, it hired Mihir Vora as its Chief Investment Officer (CIO) and recently applied to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for its first equity fund, in the flexi-cap category. Vora was Senior Director and CIO at Max Life Insurance before joining Trust. He had also worked..
 
The news published on the date November 27, 2023 07:01 AM IST with headline  It is okay for mutual funds to invest in new-age companies, even with a loss, says Sapna Narang of Capital League is: 
 Sapna Narang, Managing Partner, Capital League. Sapna Narang is among the rare women in money management in India, a space that has traditionally been dominated by men. She founded Capital League, a Gurugram-based boutique wealth management firm, in 2003. Two others, Vinita Idnani and Rajul Kothari, joined her as partners in later years.Capital League is unique because it is entirely run by women; all of its staff are women. That was not intentional when they launched the firm, Narang says. In fact, there was a male employee at the firm’s inception stage who left soon thereafter. In its annual reviews, some women expressed happiness at working at a women-oriented firm because they felt comfortable sharing and confiding with one another. “We thought perhaps there was some merit in looking at a workplace this way because a workplace has to be much more than just a place where you do business,” she said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, Narang and her team have always kept a keen eye on business. Twenty years later (today, that is), the firm is one of the largest mutual fund distributors and advisory firms in India. It manages assets worth Rs 1,573.46 crore (as of March 2023), as per the Prime database.Should you jump in when markets correct?Having started before the great Indian bull run began in 2004, Narang would ride many market cycles. That is one reason why she says investors must focus on risks and not just returns.
 
The news published on the date November 24, 2023 10:53 AM IST with headline  Personal Finance: DIY tips to build a solid bond portfolio is: 
 Bonds In times when the equity markets go up and small- and mid-cap stocks catch everyone’s fancy, it’s easy to forget about fixed-income investments. But fixed-income or debt investment is just as important as equity. Here’s the problem. You can invest in debt mutual funds with ease. But what if you want to invest in debt instruments directly, on your own? Although you can do so, there isn’t much awareness, yet. Challenges of building a bond portfolio Direct investment in bonds (outside the..
 
The news published on the date November 23, 2023 08:12 AM IST with headline  Nine behavioural biases you should control in stock markets, if you want to be a millionaire is: 
 Formulate an investment strategy with clearly defined objectives and established risk tolerance thresholds. “The investor’s chief problem and even his worst enemy is likely to be himself,” Benjamin Graham had once said. The modern era is catching up with what Graham understood, that humans are emotional beings and not completely rational, so decisions often deviate due to biases. To overcome these biases and be a successful investor in the market, it is crucial to understand them and develop strategies to mitigate their impact. Embrace rational decision-making Making decisions driven by emotions frequently leads to suboptimal..
 
The news published on the date November 23, 2023 05:27 PM IST with headline  Playing Safe: Large-Cap stocks that Mutual Funds have consistently added
 
The news published on the date November 22, 2023 02:41 PM IST with headline  Why mutual funds made a beeline for Tata Technologies IPO is: 
 Mutual funds that Moneycontrol talked to were bullish on the prospects of the company in the near to medium term. The initial public offer (IPO) of Tata group firm, Tata Technologies, is off to a flying start with the issue being subscribed over three times within the first few hours of opening on November 22.A day before the issue opened for institutional and individual buyers, the anchor quota of the IPO of the global engineering services firm raised a total of Rs 791 crore from 67 investors through the anchor book.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIncorporated in 1994 as a part of the Tata group, Tata Technologies offers product development and digital solutions including turnkey solutions, to global original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and their tier-1 suppliers.Why mutual funds invested?Mutual funds that Moneycontrol talked to were bullish on the prospects of the company in the near to medium term.
 
The news published on the date November 21, 2023 09:32 PM IST with headline  Tata Technologies IPO anchor round: Mutual funds that invested and those skipped is: 
 The funds were raised at the higher end of the Rs 475-500 price band. As many as 17 domestic mutual fund houses through a total of 39 schemes have picked shares worth Rs 355 crore in the anchor allocation round of Tata Technologies.As per the company letter to stock exchanges released on November 21, the global engineering services raised a total of Rs 791 crore from 67 investors through the anchor book, a day before the Tata Group's first IPO in almost 20 years opens for subscription.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe funds were raised at the higher end of the Rs 475-500 price band.Notably, a total of 70,99,980 shares or 44.88 percent of the overall anchor quota were subscribed by the domestic AMCs.Tata Technologies IPO has been among the most awaited initial public offers (IPO) on Dalal Street and brokerages have a positive view on the issue.
 
The news published on the date November 21, 2023 06:04 PM IST with headline  In love with banks: DSP Mutual Fund launches banking and financial services fund is: 
 The new fund offer for DBFSF opened for subscription on November 20 and will close on December 4. India’s 10th biggest asset management company (AMC), DSP Mutual Fund, has launched an open-ended scheme that will invest in the banking and financial services space. To be sure, the fund house, which has average assets under management (AUM) of over Rs 1.30 trillion (Rs 1.30 lakh crore) as of the September quarter, has three passive schemes that invest in private and public banks. The new scheme, the DSP Banking & Financial Services Fund (DBFSF), will be actively managed. The banking and..
 
The news published on the date November 21, 2023 08:46 AM IST with headline  Why the awareness about SEBI Registered Investment Advisers (RIA) is abysmally low? is: 
 Since 2013 after the regulations came out, SEBI has not come out with any ad campaign apprising the general public about RIAs and their role. Despite nearly a decade of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) regulations separating distribution and advice, awareness about Registered Investment Advisors (RIA) is still abysmally low among investors.As per an Edelweiss report, presently in India, there are about 3.4 crore unique mutual fund account holders and 6 crore unique demat accounts.Compare this to just about 1,300 RIAs in the country, which is abysmal. This figure has more or less remained static in recent years. This is further compounded by the problems that RIAs experience in running and sustaining their advisory practice due to exhaustive regulations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere are many challenges which prevail about the awareness of RIAs. The main reasons are:Identity problemFinancial adviser, investment adviser, financial planner, wealth manager, investment manager, portfolio manager – these nomenclatures are often used generically by varied professionals in the financial services industry. It is not easy for an average consumer to distinguish between financial product sellers and providers of investment advisory services as these terms are tossed around interchangeably.
 
The news published on the date November 21, 2023 08:00 AM IST with headline  Wealth creators: PMSes that delivered up to 37% annual returns in 10 years
 
The news published on the date November 20, 2023 01:51 PM IST with headline  Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC collects Rs 200 crore for its US treasury bond NFO is: 
 The benefits of investing in these instruments include locking in multi decade high yields for long-term, adding duration to portfolio and an opportunity to earn capital gains. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Reflecting an appetite for US government bonds as the US yields go up, Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund on November 20 said it collected nearly Rs 200 crore for its Aditya Birla Sun Life US Treasury Bond ETFs Fund of Funds NFOs (new fund offers) that opened from October 16 to 30."I am happy to share that almost 7,000 investors have capitalized on this unique opportunity and invested in Aditya Birla Sun Life US Treasury Bond ETFs Fund of Funds NFO,” said A Balasubramanian, managing director and chief executive of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“At ABSL AMC, we believe the Federal Reserve is unlikely to hike rates going forward and any increase in yields should be looked upon as an opportunity to buy US treasuries as rate cuts to start from the end of next year or early 2025. I firmly believe this passive offering is an excellent tactical opportunity to diversify your investments in US denominated assets. Both funds are open for continuous investment being part of the open-ended product suite."There are two funds with similar profile but catering to different type of investors. Aditya Birla Sun Life US Treasury 1-3 Year Bond ETFs Fund of Funds is suitable for investors with a shorter investment horizon and who have a relatively conservative risk profile, the company said. Aditya Birla Sun Life US Treasury 3-10 Year Bond ETFs Fund of Funds is suitable for investors with a long-term investment horizon and who have a higher risk profile.The benefits of investing in these instruments include locking in multi-decade high yields for long-term, adding duration to portfolio and an opportunity to earn capital gains.
 
The news published on the date November 20, 2023 01:56 PM IST with headline  Unifi Capital receives in-principle approval to launch mutual fund business is: 
 There has been a slew of portfolio management service (PMS) companies looking to enter the Rs 48 trillion Indian mutual fund industry. Portfolio Management company, Unifi Capital Pvt. Ltd, has received in-principle approval from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to launch a mutual fund business in India.As per the status of mutual fund applications on SEBI’s website as on September 30, 2023, Unifi had applied for the mutual fund license on December 31, 2020.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnifi Capital is long-only India centric fund manager, specialising in event-oriented top-down themes and a bottom-up focus on “growth with value”.Established in 2001, Chennai-based Unifi Capital has assets under management (AUM) of Rs 20,400 crore on behalf of about 10,000 Portfolio Management Services (PMS) and Alternative Investment Funds (AIF) clients across 22 states in India.Also read | Modi Government @10: Real estate scores hits on policy, but misses on implementation
 
The news published on the date November 20, 2023 09:16 AM IST with headline  Kotak Mutual Fund launches healthcare fund. Should you invest? is: 
 Data shows that the Nifty 500 index – a diversified index - has relatively small exposure to the healthcare sector. Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Ltd has launched an open-ended healthcare fund that will invest in pharma, healthcare, and allied sector themes. The new scheme opened on November 20. Kotak Healthcare Fund (KHF) would be the 13th active fund that would focus on the healthcare theme. The scheme would be benchmarked against the Nifty Healthcare Index, and the fund managers would be Shibani Sircar Kurian and Dhananjay Tikariha. Kurian also manages Banking and Financial Services, Focused Equity, and India EQ Contra..
 
The news published on the date November 17, 2023 07:20 AM IST with headline  Active fund managers booked profit from these multibaggers. Check your portfolio
 
The news published on the date November 17, 2023 10:12 AM IST with headline  This wealth manager says even risk-takers must invest in debt funds. Here’s why is: 
 Kirtan Shah, MD - Private Wealth, Credence Family Office Known for his insightful investment nuggets on X (formerly Twitter), Kirtan Shah commands a substantial fan following on social media. As managing director of private wealth at Credence Family Office, which manages over Rs 10,000 crore in assets, he is associated with the wealth industry. But that’s not all.As part of the education and training industry, he heads two ventures, FPA Edutech, a training provider of international certification programmes, and Ambition Learning Solutions, a leading player in the BFSI training industry, both of which he co-founded several years ago.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShah, spoke to Moneycontrol’s Maulik M about how to design a simple portfolio and the importance of staying invested for the long term. Edited excerpts.When the equity market is at a high, many investors say they want to wait to invest. What would you say to them?This is a well-known fact and there are enough data studies to show that every time you invested at a market peak but stayed on for a longer time, your experience would have been the same had you invested at any other time.
 
The news published on the date November 16, 2023 09:29 AM IST with headline  How this value fund came to top the returns chart is: 
 Value had been a stark underperformer throughout the 2010s as growth stocks were in favour across markets. There is an unusual animal lurking in the top ranks of equity funds, if you look at the returns for the last 12 months. Motilal Oswal S&P BSE Enhanced Value Exchange-Traded Fund (MOEV) gave a return of 47 percent during this period, as on November 13.That’s not necessarily the best return among all mutual fund schemes (1,464 to be precise), but the scheme has consistently featured among the top five on a one-year-return basis. The few other funds that have done as well or even better are schemes such as Mirae Asset NYSE FANG+ ETF (77 percent as of November 13), and CPSE ETF at 48 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | Digital Dazzle: The 3 best ways to buy gold this festive seasonWhat’s more, we checked out the scheme’s one-year returns all through the months of September and October, and MOEV has consistently been in the top 10, and often in the top 5.In a short span of time since its launch (August 22, 2022), MOEV has managed to top the charts. Its size, along with its index variant, is roughly Rs 65 crore as of October-end.
 
The news published on the date December 13, 2023 09:51 AM IST with headline  Opportunity in market correction: New midcap stocks that MFs added lately
 
The news published on the date November 13, 2023 10:09 AM IST with headline  How to clean up your portfolio this Diwali? Sundeep Sikka, CEO, Nippon MF, has a 3-step move is: 
 Sundeep Sikka, CEO, Nippon MF Apart from being India’s fourth-largest mutual fund (MF) house, Nippon Life India Asset Management Limited is also the largest, completely-foreign-owned fund house in the Rs 47.8 trillion Indian MF industry, a rare sight at the top of the chain, of an industry that’s seen many foreign firms exit over the years. But that wasn’t always the case. Launched in 1995, the fund house was previously known as Reliance Capital AMC. In 2012, Japanese insurer Nippon Life Insurance acquired 26 percent..
 
The news published on the date November 13, 2023 06:59 AM IST with headline  Long-term smallcap companies that equity savings funds put their money on
 
The news published on the date November 10, 2023 09:58 AM IST with headline  SIP or lumpsum investment: Which is better? is: 
 Invest small amounts of money at regular intervals in the form of Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs). Investing in the stock market is a journey filled with peaks and valleys, with steep climbs and sudden drops. There are multiple ways of embarking on this roller-coaster ride: one way is to invest lumpsum amounts of money at irregular intervals, and the other is a more disciplined approach of investing small amounts of money at regular intervals in the form of Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs). In this article, we'll explore the impact of regular, disciplined savings versus sporadic lumpsum..
 
The news published on the date November 10, 2023 11:53 AM IST with headline  Macro proof your SIPs with this MC30 midcap fund by Edelweiss MF
 
The news published on the date November 09, 2023 03:39 PM IST with headline  Equity mutual funds get close to Rs 20,000 crore net inflow in October: AMFI is: 
 Investors continued to pour money in mutual funds through SIPs, in October 2023 Not fearing equity market valuation, investors poured money in equity funds in the month of October, , as per data released by Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI; the mutual funds' industry trade body). Aside from an increase in net flows across all categories of equity funds, small cap mutual fund (MF) schemes got inflows worth Rs 4,495 crore in October 2023, up from Rs 2,678 crore a month before.Overall, equity funds got inflows worth Rs 19,957 crore, up from Rs 14,091 crore in September. The month of October saw the third highest monthly inflow into equity funds in the year of 2023. October was also the fourth month where all equity fund categories got positive net inflows (more money came in, than went out).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"It appears that retail investors think there is still juice left in small-cap funds. Yes, some mutual fund houses have stopped or limited inflows in small-cap funds because they have been finding it tough to reply the additional flows into the markets, at these levels. Investors should take caution when investing in small-cap funds. They must do their own due diligence and only then take the decision to invest in small-cap funds at these levels," says N. S. Venkatesh, (outgoing) Chief Executive Executive, AMFI.Inflows in the Rs 47 trillion Indian Mutual Funds (MF) industry went up in the month of October. Net inflows were Rs 80,586 crore, as opposed to a net outflow (more money went out than came in). Inflows through systematic investment plans (SIP) continue to go up. In October, inflows through SIP were at Rs 16,927.86 crore, up from Rs 16,042 crore, a month before.Investors also appear to warming up to long-term debt funds, given that interest rates in the economy seem to have peaked. Long-term debt funds got inflows worth Rs 3,656 crore in October. In the month of September, these funds had seen net outflow (more money went out than came in) of Rs 3,972 crore. A closer look at the AMFI data shows that government securities' (g-sec) funds got a staggering net inflow of Rs 2001 crore, up from Rs 278 crore worth of newt inflows a month before. The other long-term category that investors have warmed up to is corporate debt funds, which got net inflow worth Rs 1,940 crore. Even short-term debt funds to net inflows of Rs 1,281 crore, after seeing four successive months of net outflows.
 
The news published on the date November 09, 2023 12:27 PM IST with headline  Should mutual funds invest in new-age startups? is: 
 Digital-first beauty and personal care company Honasa Consumer has become the latest new-age startup to list on Indian exchanges. The initial public offering (IPO) of the company, which operates under the brand Mamaearth, has attracted the attention of domestic mutual funds and foreign investors alike. The stock of the company closed 4.40 percent lower on its second day of listing on November 8. IPOs often provide investors with the opportunity to invest in young companies with significant growth potential. Asset management..
 
The news published on the date November 08, 2023 06:27 PM IST with headline  Why do mutual funds invest in IPOs? Simply Save is: 
 Investing in initial public offers (IPOs) carries inherent risks, as new companies may lack a track record of financial performance and may be more volatile than established companies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo listen to the podcast, click above. To read the podcast conversation, scroll down.On the other hand, IPOs often represent young companies with significant growth potential.Mutual funds at times seek to capture this potential at an early stage by investing in the anchor round of IPOs.
 
The news published on the date November 08, 2023 03:26 PM IST with headline  Which Asian country has got Franklin Templeton excited? Stephen Dover talks about the next big opportunity is: 
 There has been a big movement to cash in the US. There has been a bigger movement in fixed-income rates, says Stephen Dover, Chief Market Strategist and Head of the Franklin Templeton Institute Franklin Templeton, the global asset management firm that manages assets worth roughly $1.4 trillion globally, has around 22 different divisions, each with their unique strategy, set of teams and research. This would sometimes mean that investment ideas could walk in opposite directions; for instance, one division might like to invest in a country or type of security, but another division might not pick them, due to differing investment mandates. At the centre of it all is Franklin Templeton Institute, which..
 
The news published on the date November 26, 2023 06:55 PM IST with headline  Thematic ETFs: Low on liquidity but worth a look
 
The news published on the date November 07, 2023 09:03 AM IST with headline  India’s inclusion in global bond indices could bring $24 bn of inflows: Sonal Desai, CIO, Franklin Templeton Fixed Income is: 
 Sonal Desai, Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, Franklin Templeton Fixed Income Sonal Desai, Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, Franklin Templeton Fixed Income, was one of the few debt fund managers last year to have correctly predicted that the US Federal Reserve would not cut its key interest “anytime soon”. Desai made that prediction in December 2022 when the benchmark US Fed rate was 4.50 percent. It had been hiked from 4 percent in November 2022, all the way up from a low of 0.25 percent in January 2022...
 
The news published on the date November 03, 2023 04:45 PM IST with headline  AMFI asks mutual funds to display only 10-year CAGR return in advertisements is: 
 The returns prescribed by AMFI for the purpose of numerical illustrations will be reviewed annually. The Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), has clarified that asset management companies (AMCs) cannot show future returns even as illustrations and has also directed them to use only the 10-year compounded annual rolling returns (CAGR) for showcasing investment returns in their advertisements.The industry body has issued fresh guidelines on best practices to be followed after SEBI observed that some AMCs were releasing advertisements which were not in compliance with the letter and spirit of the provisions in the Advertisement Code prescribed in the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read: Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge Mutual Fund applies for its first fund with SEBIThe Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had noted that some illustrations provided in the advertisements, presentations, brochures and pamphlets were such that they could lead investors to believe that they would be receiving fixed returns for their investments including that of systematic investment plans (SIPs) by demonstrating SWP (Systematic Withdrawal Plan) as a multiple of SIP.Some illustrations were also seen depicting future returns based on assumptions and projections.
 
The news published on the date November 03, 2023 04:46 PM IST with headline  Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge Mutual Fund applies for its first fund with SEBI is: 
 This would be homecoming for Kenneth Andrade, who was chief investment officer of IDFC Mutual Fund till 2015 Old Bridge Mutual Fund, sponsored by Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge Capital Management, has filed for its first fund -- a focused equity one -- with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Old Bridge Capital Management, a portfolio management firm, had received the final approval from the capital markets regulator to commence its mutual fund operations in September. Old Bridge Mutual Fund would be the fourth new asset management company to launch this year after Bajaj Finserv Mutual Fund, Helios Mutual Fund..
 
The news published on the date November 05, 2023 05:03 PM IST with headline  In Search For Long-Term Winners: Top stocks that tax-saving MFs have added
 
The news published on the date November 04, 2023 09:41 PM IST with headline  Finfluencers exist because traditional financial organisations and setups left a gap: MF experts is: 
 Panel discussion on financial literacy in the digital age Financial influencers, or finfluencers, which have mushroomed on social media of late, exist due to gaps in traditional organisations, and financial education should be imparted from the school itself, according to mutual fund industry mavens.“Finfluencers exist because of traditional financial organisations and setups; we left a gap,” said a mutual fund expert at the India FinTech Forum's (IFTA 2023) panel discussion on financial literacy held on November 1. The mutual fund expert added some finfluencers were extremely accurate, prescient in what they say and also fairly responsible.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNow, most finfluencers are not registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi). Many of them are quite popular on social media platforms such as YouTube and Instagram, with some of them boasting of 1-2 million followers.At the IFTA 2023 held on November 1, industry leaders discussed how to teach people about financial concepts that are relevant in the digital age.The panel deliberated on the importance of financial literacy from schools as a separate subject to include in regular family conversations and the role of finfluencers in our investment journey in the digital age and beyond.
 
The news published on the date November 02, 2023 07:37 PM IST with headline  Baroda BNP Paribas MF’s small-cap fund collects Rs 1,100 crore in NFO period is: 
 Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund is the 22nd biggest AMC in India with average AUM of Rs 31,260 crore. Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund’s new scheme Baroda BNP Paribas Small Cap Fund has mobilised Rs 1,103 crore during its new fund offer (NFO) period hinting at no slowdown in the frenzied buying in smaller cap categories.The NFO for Baroda BNP Paribas Small Cap Fund was opened on October 6-20, 2023. This is the 7th NFO by Baroda BNP Paribas Asset Management India Private Ltd since the formation of the merged entity in March 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNotably, Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund is the 22nd biggest asset management company (AMC) in India with average assets under management (AUM) of Rs 31,260 crore for the September quarter.Also read: Are Zerodha MF’s new funds tracking Nifty LargeMidcap 250 Index good bets?The AMC’s last equity fund – Baroda BNP Paribas Value Fund – had collected more than Rs 1,500 crore during the NFO period in May this year. In December last year, the Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund mobilised over Rs 1,230 crore AUM during the NFO period of its multi-asset fund.
 
The news published on the date November 03, 2023 11:11 AM IST with headline  Are Zerodha MF’s new funds tracking Nifty LargeMidcap 250 Index good bets? is: 
 Zerodha Fund House is the latest entrant into the Rs 47 trillion Indian fund management industry. Zerodha Asset Management, a joint venture between Zerodha Broking and smallcase Technologies, has launched its first set of funds - Zerodha Nifty LargeMidcap 250 Index Fund and Zerodha ELSS Tax Saver Nifty LargeMidcap 250 Index Fund.The new fund offer (NFO) for both the schemes will close on November 3.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdVishal Jain, Chief Executive Officer, Zerodha Fund House said, “This NFO is an effort to provide a simple equity product with a good mix of stability and growth, which can be used by investors as a singular investment solution to invest in the top 250 companies who stand to benefit from the long-term growth of the Indian economy.”About the schemesZerodha Nifty LargeMidcap 250 Index Fund and Zerodha ELSS Tax Saver Nifty LargeMidcap 250 Index Fund will be benchmarked against the Nifty LargeMidcap 250 Index TRI (Total Returns Index).
 
The news published on the date November 01, 2023 08:09 PM IST with headline  SEBI revamps format of offer documents of mutual fund schemes is: 
 Offer documents such as Key Information Memorandum (KIM), Scheme Information Document (SID) and Statement of Additional Information (SAI) provide fundamental attributes of a scheme. To streamline the dissemination of relevant information to investors, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has revised the format used by asset management companies (AMCs) for filing offer documents of mutual fundschemes.As per the circular dated November 1, notable changes are in the section, 'summary of the scheme' where the AMC needs to highlight the name of the benchmark of the scheme and provide justification (specific to the scheme objective) for the use of benchmark index with which the performance of the scheme can be compared with. The section will also need to highlight the second-tier benchmark, if applicable.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA second-tier benchmark shows the investment style or strategy of the fund manager within the category.Also read | Not disclosing foreign assets to taxman can cost you dearlyFurther, from now on the 'summary of the scheme' section will provide a weblink, wherein the Total Expense Ratio (TER) for the last six months as well as the scheme factsheet will be made available.
 
The news published on the date November 05, 2023 08:51 PM IST with headline  Navigating the mutual fund maze: When to go direct and when to seek expert guidance is: 
 Experts suggest that direct mutual funds may be well-suited for investors who have a good understanding of mutual funds. Since their introduction in 2013, direct mutual funds have seen enormous growth as average assets under management (AUM) routed through these plans have ballooned to 45 percent of the total AUM of the mutual fund industry as of March 31, 2023.In direct mutual funds, investors buy fund units directly from the asset management company (AMC) or through a registrar without involving a distributor or broker. These are in contrast to regular mutual funds where investors purchase units through intermediaries and pay commissions or fees for their services.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent rally in equity markets, many individuals have jumped onto the investment bandwagon. A DIY (Do-It-Yourself) mutual fund investor is an individual who manages their mutual fund investments independently, without relying on a financial advisor or professional assistance.Also read | Watch out for financial changes this November amid gold buying for Dhanteras and navigating festive offersHere we tell readers when to go direct and when not to venture directly.
 
The news published on the date November 04, 2023 09:56 PM IST with headline  Should you pledge gold to invest in equities? is: 
 The complainant paid the accused Rs 1.05 crore in instalments between March 2022 and July 2023. However, he did not receive any gold despite making the full payment. (Representational Image). Nita’s banker has been urging her to put her passive gold assets to use. The banker suggested she take a loan against her gold jewellery, coins, etc., and invest that in equity markets. According to the banker, this will help animate her passive assets and multiply her wealth.With equity markets on a roll, many investors like Nita are considering taking a loan against their gold, and investing the amount in equities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe mathAssume Nita takes Rs 30 lakh loan at 8.5 percent interest per annum (p.a.), which she repays in a year. The EMI works out to Rs 2,61,659 per month. Now assume, this Rs 30 lakh is invested in a Nifty 50 index fund for 10 years, with an assumed ROI of 12 percent p.a. At the end of 10 years, the value of the investment would be Rs 91,62,633, taking into account the interest paid in the first year on the loan.
 
The news published on the date November 04, 2023 05:56 PM IST with headline  Contrarian bets in market peaks: Midcap stocks that have turned contra fund favourites
 
The news published on the date October 30, 2023 09:48 AM IST with headline  Where to invest Rs 10 lakh today? Umeshkumar Mehta of Samco Mutual Fund suggests large-cap MFs and these 5 sectors is: 
 Umeshkumar Mehta, chief investment officer, Samco Mutual Fund Samco Mutual Fund, the country’s 37th largest fund house with assets worth Rs 1,307 crore (as on September 2023), entered the Rs 47 trillion Indian mutual funds (MF) industry relatively recently, in 2022.Among the challenges facing any new fund house in an industry comprising 44 fund houses is how to differentiate itself and gain the trust of investors, especially when they have big brands to choose from.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdActively activeUmeshkumar Mehta, chief investment officer, Samco Mutual Fund, has a plan. So far, the fund house has launched three actively-managed equity funds: the Samco Flexi Cap Fund, Samco ELSS Tax Saver Fund, and Samco Active Momentum Fund. Aside from these, it also has the Samco Overnight Fund (a short-term debt fund), but that’s mainly to cater to large institutional investors and facilitate systematic transfer plans (STP). Samco Mutual Fund: A short-term report card.
 
The news published on the date November 04, 2023 12:45 PM IST with headline  Where to park your money when markets go volatile? Experts bat for SIPs, large-cap funds is: 
 The turbulence in equity markets is shaking up investors on the Street. The BSE benchmark Sensex has crashed over 3,000 points after six consecutive sessions of fall, making investors, especially those who started investing after the markets’ recovery from the Covid-induced fall in 2020, nervous.But top fund managers and chief investment officers that Moneycontrol spoke with say that investors must keep faith in Indian economy’s growth trajectory.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdReasons behind painBetween March 2023 and September 2023, the equity market experienced rapid growth, primarily driven by the rally in small and midcap stocks.This occurred against a backdrop of escalating global risks, including high interest rates and challenging debt dynamics in various parts of the world, elevated oil prices due to supply concerns potentially impacting inflation, and recent geopolitical tensions.
 
The news published on the date November 25, 2023 10:08 PM IST with headline  SEBI proposes new ‘high-risk’ category of mutual funds, seeks comments from AMFI is: 
 There has been a slew of portfolio management service (PMS) companies looking to enter the Rs 48 trillion Indian mutual fund industry. The capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has proposed to introduce a new mutual fund (MF) that comes with high-risk, and offers a chance to earn higher returns. SEBI has sent a letter to Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI; the MF industry's trade body).Moneycontrol has reviewed this communication.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSEBI initially put forth this proposal at a meeting with AMFI. Following which, it wrote a letter to AMFI to internally consult about the possibility of such a category. A person with knowledge of the matter said that SEBI is concerned that many investors- in the race to earn higher returns (out of greed)- rush to high-risk Portfolio Management Services and sometimes to unregistered advisors.Instead, he quoted SEBI's thinking- if mutual funds launch such a high risk product, then investors would more likely stay with mutual funds, which itself is tightly regulated by SEBI.According to people familiar with the matter, SEBI hasn't specified the instruments that this fund can invest in. "Matters are still at consultation stage," said this official. But MF industry officials say that such a scheme might be allowed to invest in instruments like momentum stocks (small-cap, mid-cap, micro-cap and mini-cap stocks), use derivative and high-risk leverage strategies.
 
The news published on the date October 29, 2023 02:03 PM IST with headline  Mutual Funds hitch a ride on auto stocks for a drive in the fast lane
 
The news published on the date October 24, 2023 07:22 AM IST with headline  Gold buying on Dussehra: Is this a good time to invest? is: 
 Dussehra is considered an auspicious time to make new investments, and gold is seen as a symbol of wealth and prosperity. Many Indians believe that buying gold during this time can bring good fortune and wealth in the coming year.However, just like any investment, the decision to buy gold should be based on sound rationale. So, does it make sense to buy gold this Dussehra as the prices have gained close to 20 percent on a one-year basis?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFactors at playGold prices in India have gone up marginally in the recent past largely due to the current geopolitical tensions in the Middle East.Further, factors such as higher inflation and buying by global central banks have been the key drivers of gold over the past few months. As far as local factors are concerned, robust consumer demand, depreciation of local currency and buying of the Reserve Bank of India are the major factors.
 
The news published on the date October 24, 2023 07:17 AM IST with headline  Gold buying on Dussehra: Which is the best way to invest? is: 
 The best way to buy gold this Dussehra depends on an individual’s investment goals and risk tolerance. Dussehra holds a special significance in India, marked by the initiation of new ventures and purchase of gold. For generations, gold acquisition in India predominantly involved physical assets such as coins, bars, and jewellery.As per Somasundaram PR, Regional Chief Executive Officer-India, World Gold Council, anecdotal feedback from retailers suggests a good pickup in gold jewellery demand around the Dussehra festival.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Positive net interest scenario but a fall in domestic savings, stock market volatility amidst a highly optimistic domestic economic sentiment, mixed signals on rural demand from FMCG but significant footfalls on jewellery B2B events in recent times and rising GST collections pointing to better compliance and growth, all of which make this festive quarter for gold look very positive but with significant challenges," Somasundaram said.In recent years, we have witnessed a surge in digital gold investment, emerging as the latest trend in the country. This shift gained momentum following the introduction of sovereign gold bonds (SGBs) by the government, which offer an additional annual return of 2.5 percent, augmenting its capital appreciation.Also read | Smallcap stocks for long-term growth that category III AIFs like
 
The news published on the date October 23, 2023 09:08 AM IST with headline  Samir Arora-backed Helios AMC’s first equity fund: All you need to know is: 
 Samir Arora will be the sponsor of Helios Mutual Fund. On October 23, Samir Arora-led Helios Capital Asset Management, the latest entrant into the 45-member Indian asset management industry, launched its first equity scheme called the Helios Flexi Cap Fund, which will invest across market capitalisations. Last week, the asset management company (AMC) had launched the Helios Overnight Fund, which, according to experts, will help the fund house build up a large base of assets under management (AUM) and help investors invest in its new equity fund through a Systematic..
 
The news published on the date November 08, 2023 05:55 PM IST with headline  You don’t need to see the future to invest successfully in the markets is: 
 TCPL has also started focusing on semi-urban and rural markets by appointing distributors which will help in penetrating markets further 'It is difficult to make predictions, especially about the future.'-Either Neils Bohr, Physicist; or, Yogi Berra, Baseball PlayerThe above quote is of uncertain origin. It cannot be established clearly which of the above two persons, or even someone else, said it. If this is true for a relatively recent event in the current information age, predicting the future is definitely a tall ask. In the stock markets, the holy grail for many is to try to predict future market levels or prices of specific stocks. However, for investing in the markets, there is another more reasonable method.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKnow what you know, and know what you don’t knowWhile future stock price levels or index levels are difficult to predict, it is possible to have a relatively more accurate view of the future fundamentals of a company. Even within the fundamentals, the book value or net worth of a company, except financial firms, can be established with a higher level of confidence compared to its revenues. Further, it is easier to determine that the net worth of the company could likely be higher than some minimum level next year or several years in the future; we can term this the conservative future book value.Also read | How Long Should You Keep Your Tax Documents, Income Proof?
 
The news published on the date October 20, 2023 01:10 PM IST with headline  Indraprastha Gas down 10% on EV policy; MFs, insurers take a Rs 681-cr hit in value is: 
 Nearly 25 mutual funds collectively hold around 67.74 million shares or 9.68 percent stake in IGL Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Shares of Indraprastha Gas Ltd lost more than 10 percent on October 20 after the Delhi government approved the electric vehicle policy for cab aggregators and delivery services. This resulted in mutual funds and insurance companies holding the stock losing over Rs 681 crore in value.Nearly 25 mutual funds collectively hold around 67.74 million shares or 9.68 percent stake in IGL as of the September quarter, according to the BSE shareholding pattern. These MFs includes, Kotak Fexicap Fund growth, Mirae Asset Emerging Bluechip Fund, PGIM India MidCap Opportunities, Nippon India Growth Fund, HSBC MidCap fund, DSP Equity Opportunities Fund, and HDFC Lrge and MidCap fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAround 20 insurance companies collectively own 77.30 million shares, representing an 11.04 percent stake in the firm. Life Insurance Corp Ltd, India's largest insurance company, incurred a loss of over Rs 200 crore due to the stock's decline. It holds around 45.41 million shares, equivalent to a 6.49 percent stake in the company.Jefferies India downgraded IGL to 'hold' from 'buy' and lowered the target price by 3 percent to Rs 465 on an anticipated decline of 30 percent in volume by FY25, particularly in the NCR. The Delhi-NCR impacts 88 percent of IGL's volumes. Jefferies also downgraded FY25/26 EPS by 7-9 percent and adjusted the valuation multiple because of increased EV-related risks.In a bearish scenario, they foresee a 21 percent reduction in target price to Rs 380 per share. This could occur if electric vehicle adoption is successful by 2024-25, leading to a decrease in CNG volume growth starting in FY24, along with factors such as cost advantages for domestic CNG gas and competition from third-party marketers in Delhi-NCR, affecting profit margins in a regulated gas sales environment.
 
The news published on the date October 20, 2023 07:20 AM IST with headline  MF industry added these stocks afresh in September. Do you own any?
 
The news published on the date October 19, 2023 07:17 AM IST with headline  Cost or Returns — which is more important as an investor when picking an investment is: 
 There are numerous other expenses that one should be aware of and should thoroughly explore with the financial advisor. As the bull market roars, individuals tend to ignore costs in favour of returns, as the general alibi is that it doesn’t matter what the cost is as long as the return is positive. Is this the appropriate method for evaluating an investment? Maybe not. Therefore, I'll make the case for why costs and returns are significant and frequently (tangibly and intangibly) interrelated.High costs equate to lower returnsStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe money you spend on a mutual fund's expense ratio, a PMS management fee or profit-sharing arrangement, insurance, or any other product is money that you pay out of your own pocket and is used to pay the company's manufacturer, distributor, and all other stakeholders, who are ostensibly working to generate returns for you, the investor.Listen | Do international mutual funds still make sense for Indian investors? Simply saveThe issue is that we tend to forget that "returns are lumpy and non-linear while costs are certain and regular" as a result of our "recency bias", which causes us to extrapolate recent gains and believe costs wouldn't matter. Then, even for a brief period of time, when the tide flips, those same returns begin to haunt us, even though we may have thought we were done with the investment and had no possibility of getting our money back.
 
The news published on the date October 18, 2023 09:46 PM IST with headline  Do international mutual funds still make sense for Indian investors? Simply save is: 
 Subscriptions to international mutual funds have tapered off over the past two years due to tepid returns delivered by global equity markets, a cap on overseas investment by mutual funds and changes in taxation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo listen to the podcast, click above. To read the podcast conversation, scroll down.The dwindling demand is particularly marked since it comes after the tremendous growth overseas mutual funds saw, starting January 2020.Data available with ACE MF, a mutual fund research tool, showed that at the end of January 2020 there were 33 overseas funds available in the Indian market with total assets under management (AUM) of Rs 7,598 crore, jumping to 66 funds at the end of September 2023 with an AUM of Rs 47,850 crore, an over sixfold surge.
 
The news published on the date October 17, 2023 04:56 PM IST with headline  Quantum MF opens small-cap fund after index rises 35% in one year; should you invest? is: 
 The Quantum Small Cap Fund (QSF) opened for subscription on October 16 and will close on October 27. Quantum Mutual Fund has launched a small-cap scheme after the small-cap index surged more than 35 percent over the past year. Large-cap stocks are defined as the top 100 in terms of market capitalisation. Mid-caps are the 101st to 250th companies by market capitalisation, and small-caps as the 251st company onwards. The Quantum Small Cap Fund (QSF) opened for subscription on October 16 and will close on October 27. About the scheme The QSF will first look at stocks in the market cap..
 
The news published on the date October 17, 2023 07:22 AM IST with headline  Check out these MF favourite sectors that are undergoing business upcycle
 
The news published on the date October 13, 2023 07:43 AM IST with headline  SEBI member Ananth Narayan G pitches for risk education, awareness in mutual funds is: 
 Ananth Narayan G, Whole-Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India. Indian retail investors are yet to understand the concept of risk, which the Indian mutual fund (MF) industry must work on next as part of its financial market literacy programme, Ananth Narayan G, Whole-Time Member, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), said.During his keynote address at the Moneycontrol Mutual Fund Summit in Mumbai on October 11, Narayan explained that during the past many years, the MF industry in India has been successfully able to make investors understand the concepts of compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) and relative returns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“However, people are yet to imbibe risk as a metric. We made a small start in terms of using risk-o-metres, and we have tried to make them as simple as possible. But there are better ways to measure and explain risk,” Narayan noted.A scheme's risk-o-metre is its risk indicator, depending on its month-end portfolio.Apple = Bitcoin?
 
The news published on the date October 12, 2023 01:45 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol MF Summit: Rural markets, the new frontier for MFs is: 
 Moneycontrol MF Summit | Panel discussion from India to Bharat: Can mutual funds be successfully distributed in the hinterlands of the country? Most Indians love to invest in physical assets, which includes, gold and real estate. People in rural India prefer investing in bank fixed deposits and chit funds.At the Moneycontrol Mutual Fund Summit held on October 11, industry leaders dwelt on plans to scale the mutual fund industry to 20 crore unique investors from the current four crore. Experts from the mutual fund industry gathered on a panel to discuss what kind of inroads the mutual fund industry has made into the hinterlands of this country and how to go beyond.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDistributing mutual funds to Bharat Today 83 percent of the mutual funds AUM comes from the top 30 cities. So, it seems the wealth creation tool through mutual funds is limited to a few areas of this country.Nilesh Shah, MD, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company said, "Mutual funds are open for all the investors who want to invest. We have no restriction, we don't differentiate between HNIs and a poor person. We are offering the same products, delivering the same returns and service to both segments of investors. But, the problem is whether people from B30 cities are interested in investing in mutual funds."
 
The news published on the date October 12, 2023 07:48 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol MF Summit: Dream goal - MF industry charts plans for 5-fold jump to 20 crore investors is: 
 mutual funds The mutual fund industry is all geared to hit the next leg of growth. At the Moneycontrol Mutual Fund Summit held on October 11, industry leaders dwelt on plans to scale the mutual fund industry to 20 crore unique investors from the current four crore.When asked about the long growth path ahead for the mutual fund industry, chief executives at various mutual fund houses highlighted various factors that could provide a significant boost to this growth journey. While the growing economy and a robust regulatory framework attract many investors to mutual funds, there has been a structural change in terms of increased investor participation. A Balasubramanian, Managing Director (MD) & Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Aditya Birla Sun Life Asset Management, highlighted the increasing number of millennials investing in mutual fund schemes through systematic investment plans (SIPs). “Investors have realised that diversification is required, and mutual funds offer that,” he said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: Moneycontrol MF Summit: Communication, engagement with GenZ imperative to expand mutual fund investor baseHe added that in the last few years, investors have only seen one side of the market. “After every three years, there is one year of flat or negative returns. Investors need to remain invested in that period. Fortunately, investors are staying invested, thanks to investor education,” he added.The growth of the mutual fund industry can come in the form of new investors coming in. Avinash Satwalekar, CFA & President, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India), insisted on increasing financial inclusion. Getting more women investors and expanding in B-30 cities can help growth. “Mutual funds have been around for some time. India understands mutual funds, but we have to take this concept to Bharat,” he added.
 
The news published on the date October 11, 2023 01:10 PM IST with headline  September net equity inflow at Rs 13,857 crore; holds positive territory for 31st month in a row is: 
 During September, BSE Sensex net gained 1.50 percent, while NSE Nifty was up 2 percent. Inflows into open-ended equity mutual funds came in at Rs 13,857 crore in September, against Rs 20,161 crore inflows (MoM), data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) released on October 11 showed.Net inflows into equity funds have now remained in the positive territory for the 31st month in a row starting with March 2021.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe inflows have come amid volatile equity markets during September. During the month, BSE Sensex net gained 1.50 percent, while NSE Nifty was up 2 percent.Also Read | Equity mutual fund inflows plunge 30% in SeptemberHybrid fund inflow for the month of September sees a rise at Rs 18,650 crore against inflows of Rs 17,082 crore (MoM).
 
The news published on the date October 14, 2023 03:15 PM IST with headline  Hot stocks added by top smallcap funds in September
 
The news published on the date October 09, 2023 09:59 AM IST with headline  Age-proofing your finances: Here are some smart money management techniques for seniors is: 
 Medical expenses are likely to escalate in your senior years. Let us take a moment to understand some challenges and smart money management tips for senior citizens.Though you will be freed from the daily pressures of work, your senior years will bring into your life a unique set of finance-related challenges that may worry you. Have I saved enough? What if my money runs out? Should I invest aggressively or preserve my capital? Should I consume my resources, or try to bequeath? Should I find part-time work? These are just some questions that could be keeping you up at night. Here are some “take charge” measures that can help.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTake stockIf you haven’t done so already, take stock of everything you own as your holdings may be disorganised and scattered over so many decades of investing. Collate everything – your equity shares, mutual funds, life insurance policies, real estate, health insurance plans, etc. Draw up the details of your liabilities as well. Knowing exactly how much you own, and in what asset classes, is critical.Also read | Will investors trust Axis Mutual Fund again? Yes, says Ashish Gupta, CIO
 
The news published on the date October 09, 2023 08:41 AM IST with headline  Will investors trust Axis Mutual Fund again? Yes, says Ashish Gupta, CIO is: 
 Ashish Gupta- CIO- Axis Mutual Fund Ashish Gupta, the new Chief Investment Officer (CIO) at Axis Asset Management Company (AMC), India’s 8th largest fund house with assets roughly worth Rs 2.60 trillion (2.6 lakh crore), has his work cut out. Along with new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) B Gopkumar, Gupta’s main task is to get investors and distributors to trust Axis Mutual Fund (MF) once again after the recent front-running case where its chief dealer was pulled up, first following an internal investigation, and later by the capital..
 
The news published on the date October 09, 2023 07:09 AM IST with headline  Enhanced Value index funds topped the return chart past year. Here are their top stocks bet
 
The news published on the date October 07, 2023 12:04 PM IST with headline  Stick with short-term debt funds and bank FDs, for now is: 
 Amid global turmoil, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has chosen to keep the repo rate constant at 6.5 percent. Fixed-income investors were worried about rising bond yields in the US, rising crude oil prices and a possible impact thereof on the monetary policy review on October 6.Despite a focus on bringing down inflation to the desired level of 4 percent, the RBI decided to maintain the monetary policy stance. Prevalent attractive bond yields make it a good time to allocate money to fixed income.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStatus quoTo begin with, the RBI’s monetary policy committee (MPC) decided to continue with the stance of withdrawal of accommodation. This is done to ensure that inflation progressively aligns to the target, while supporting growth. The MPC not only left interest rates constant but also kept the growth outlook unchanged, with real GDP growth for FY2023-24 projected at 6.5 percent. Despite surging crude oil prices, erratic monsoon and a spike in prices of food items in the domestic economy, the MPC decided to keep the inflation outlook constant.The RBI projects inflation at 5.4 percent for FY2023-2024. “Significant easing of inflation is expected in September. But indications are that throughout October-December 2023, food inflation may not see sustained easing. This requires careful monitoring of incoming data and the outlook,” said Shaktikanta Das, Governor, RBI.
 
The news published on the date October 11, 2023 12:47 AM IST with headline  Edelweiss Financial NCD offers up to 10.46%: Should you go for it? is: 
 Edelweiss Financial Services has opened its Rs 100 crore secured non-convertible debenture (NCD) public issue, with a green-shoe option of Rs 100 crore, making it a possibly Rs 200 crore issue. The diversified financial services company is raising funds to repay or pre-pay borrowings as well as for general corporate purposes.About the issueStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere are 10 series of NCDs carrying fixed coupons with tenures of 24 months, 36 months, 60 months and 120 months, offering annual, monthly and cumulative interest options. The effective annual yield ranges from 8.94 percent to 10.46 percent. The highest payout is offered in the 120-month tenor option.While the monthly interest payout option isn't available in the 24-month tenor, cumulative (paid back at maturity) payout won't be available in the 120-month tenor option.Also read | Tax-saving FDs: These banks offer interest rates of up to 7.5%
 
The news published on the date October 11, 2023 12:59 AM IST with headline  Broadening Horizons: Does a 500 to 750-stock broad-market fund help? is: 
 The constant FII selling and DII buying can cause increased market volatility, and FII selling can lead to rupee depreciation, said experts. The broad-market passive fund strategy, which has worked well in global markets, especially the US, hasn’t picked up in India in a big way. However, some fund houses are betting on them as liquidity has improved in the Indian equity markets in the past few years. Groww Mutual Fund has launched the Nifty Total Market Index Fund and its new fund offer (NFO) is open till October 17. Motilal Oswal AMC has announced the Motilal Oswal Nifty 500 ETF, which..
 
The news published on the date October 11, 2023 12:47 AM IST with headline  Tempted by the market rally? Know the risks well before investing in smallcap funds is: 
 small-cap-fund It is not easy being a smallcap investor. The segment is highly volatile, not just at an individual (smallcap) stock level but also at the category level itself. But to be fair, the recent returns have been spectacular.The accompanying table lists the return profile of smallcap funds (AUM > Rs 5,000 crore and at least 2 years old) and also that of a largecap Nifty-50 based index fund for comparison.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile smallcaps have had a solid run over the last 5-6 months, they have also propped up the 1-and-3-year return profile of these funds. And it’s nothing less than dazzling. Good smallcap funds have given a 3-year CAGR of 30-40 percent whereas the bellwether Nifty50 gave 16.9 percent. The story is similar if you look at 1-year returns.But while it is tempting to believe that the smallcap party will last forever, let’s zoom out a bit. If you remember that trees don't grow to the sky and that the pendulum always oscillates, and are willing to look a little further back in history, you will see that the smallcap returns swing wildly. In good years these are life-changing no doubt, but in bad years they test the patience and can be devastating.
 
The news published on the date October 07, 2023 02:01 PM IST with headline  Time to rebalance your portfolio? Check out these aggressive hybrid funds that provide stability and high growth
 
The news published on the date October 11, 2023 12:53 AM IST with headline  World Financial Planning Day: Overseas travel, FIRE high on priority list, say advisors is: 
 World Financial Planning Day The financial goals of an increasingly aspirational India – the middle-class, in particular – have changed significantly over the years.Saving for children’s education continues to be the most important goal, but overseas travel and early retirement have crept up the list of priorities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat has not changed, however, is the core principle of financial planning: the need for a sound plan and the discipline to adhere to it to achieve key goals.Today on the occasion of World Financial Planning Day, Moneycontrol spoke to five financial advisors to understand how the financial planning goals of Indians have changed, the key components of a successful financial planning strategy, decision-making around high-value assets such as residential property, and the mistakes that must be avoided. Here are edited excerpts of their views:Traditional financial goals make way for new ones
 
The news published on the date October 04, 2023 02:59 PM IST with headline  Mirae Asset Mutual Fund raises SIP limits for Mirae Asset Emerging Bluechip Fund is: 
 Over the three years ended October 3, 2023, MEBF has given 24.41 percent returns compared to 24.76 percent returns given by the large & mid-cap fund category. The largest large-and-mid cap equity fund in the Indian mutual fund industry, Mirae Asset Emerging Bluechip Fund (MEBF) is set to accept increased investments.Mirae Asset Mutual Fund has decided to raise the investment limit to Rs 25,000 from the current limit of Rs 2,500. This limit is applicable per PAN for the monthly SIP ( systematic investment plan) in the scheme.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMEBF has been accepting money only through monthly SIP to the extent of Rs 2,500 per month per PAN. The scheme does not accept lump sum investments. Existing investments in the scheme and already registered SIPs do not get affected by this announcement. New SIPs can be registered up to the prescribed limit of Rs 25,000 per month going forward. This will be effective October 10.ALSO READ: HDFC AMC changes asset allocation of retirement fund; what should you do?The scheme manages assets worth Rs 28,439 crore as of August 31, 2023, as per Value Research. The scheme is managed by Ankit Jain and Nilesh Surana.
 
The news published on the date October 11, 2023 12:44 AM IST with headline  IT is a contrarian bet; we have reduced our underweight on the sector: Harshad Patwardhan, CIO, Union MF is: 
 Harshad Patwardhan, Chief Investment Officer, Union Mutual Fund Union Mutual Fund, India’s 25th biggest asset management company (AMC), appointed Harshad Patwardhan as its Chief Investment Officer (CIO) in August this year. Patwardhan, who has over 28 years of experience in research and portfolio management in Indian equities, was CIO-Equities at Edelweiss Asset Management until December 2021. Thereafter, he had a stint as CIO at Girik Capital, a portfolio management service (PMS). Union AMC, as a fund house, is tilted towards the growth strategy, and uses the ‘Fair Value Spectrum’..
 
The news published on the date October 03, 2023 07:00 AM IST with headline  Nifty @20K: Can these low volatile stocks cushion your portfolio volatility?
 
The news published on the date October 10, 2023 07:43 PM IST with headline  Bandhan Mutual Fund launches retirement scheme; should you invest? is: 
 Retirement funds are a relatively quiet category in the MF industry. Bandhan Mutual Fund, India’s 10th biggest asset management company (AMC), has launched a retirement fund. It will invest in a mix of equity and debt, with a long-term perspective.Retirement funds are solution-oriented schemes which lock investments for at least five years or till retirement age, whichever is earlier.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat does the scheme offer?Bandhan Retirement Fund (BRF) will follow the dynamic asset allocation strategy which will provide investors an opportunity to participate in equity market upsides while cushioning potential downsides during a fall.Also read | 95% of investment advisers penalised by SEBI provide trading calls: Study
 
The news published on the date September 28, 2023 04:03 PM IST with headline  Mutual Fund redemptions to be allowed on September 29: Sources is: 
 Mutual funds facilitate redemption in two working days, that is T+2. Mutual fund (MF) investors have been given respite from the long weekend due to begin on September 29. The Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI: the MF industry’s trade body), is about to declare September 29 (Friday) as a business day. As per industry sources, this decision was taken earlier today (Thursday), though an official notification is yet to be released.This means that those who had put in a redemption request on September 27 (Wednesday) will get their money on September 29, despite it being a bank holiday on account of Eid. Up until now, investors were in a tizzy due to the long weekend and because of the closure of equity and fixed income markets from September 28 (Thursday) to October 2 (Monday).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEarlier, September 28 was meant to be a holiday on account of Eid-E-Milad. However, due to Ganesh Visarjan (the last day of the Ganesh festival), the Maharashtra government decided to shift the public holiday to September 29 (Friday).In other words, September 29 is now a bank holiday. Typically, a bank holiday is a non-business day.The long weekend and the government’s last-minute decision to shift the bank Eid-E-Milad holiday by a day upset a few investors, who were counting on redemptions happening in the interim.
 
The news published on the date September 27, 2023 05:53 PM IST with headline  More micro-cap funds are on the anvil: Invest or avoid? Simply Save is: 
 Thanks to the rally in micro-cap stocks over the past one year, the smallest market-cap pack has caught the fancy of investors and mutual fund houses.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe value of micro-cap stocks in all the mutual fund schemes has risen from Rs 45,500 crore in September last year to over Rs 60,000 crore currently.To listen to the podcast, click above. To read the podcast conversation, scroll down.But first, what are micro-caps?
 
The news published on the date September 27, 2023 10:28 AM IST with headline  Investing in mutual funds just got easier: All you need is a Visa debit card is: 
 Investing in mutual funds using Visa debit cards. Now, investors can invest in mutual funds or enable systematic investment plans (SIPs) using Visa debit cards. To begin with, this first-of-its-kind initiative will be available only to Visa debit cards issued by Federal Bank and ICICI Bank. The service will soon be available to more Visa cardholders. “The objective behind this facility is to enhance customer experience, increase retail investor base and help grow digital payments,” said Ramakrishnan Gopalan, Vice President and Head of Products & Solutions - India and..
 
The news published on the date September 27, 2023 07:18 AM IST with headline  Aditya Birla Finance’s NCD issue offers up to 8.09%; should you invest? is: 
 The NCD issue has been rated AAA with a stable outlook by India Ratings & Research and ICRA. Non-banking financial company, Aditya Birla Finance, has opened the public issue of its Rs 1,000-crore secured non-convertible debentures (NCDs). It comes with a green shoe option of Rs 1,000 crore, making it a Rs 2,000 crore issue.About the issueStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe financial services company’s first public issue of NCDs offers investors six debenture options spread across tenures of three, five, and 10 years. The effective yields range from 7.99 to 8.09 percent per annum, with annual and cumulative interest payouts. The monthly payout option is only available for the 10-year NCD.Also read | Step up your card safety with cardless cash withdrawalsThe proposed NCDs have been rated AAA with a stable outlook by two rating agencies, India Ratings & Research and ICRA, which is rare for an NCD issue.
 
The news published on the date September 26, 2023 01:46 PM IST with headline  SBI Mutual Fund elevates DP Singh as Joint CEO is: 
 DP Singh, Deputy Managing Director and Joint CEO, SBI Funds Management. India’s biggest asset management company (AMC) by assets, SBI Mutual Fund, on September 26 said it has elevated DP Singh to the post of joint chief executive officer.Singh, 61, would now be deputy managing director and joint CEO of SBI Funds Management (SBI MF). He was earlier deputy managing director and chief business officer at the AMC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe decision on the new CBO has not yet been made and the AMC will decide in due course of time.Also read | How have India’s oldest MF schemes rewarded investors?Meanwhile, Shamsher Singh would continue to be managing director and chief executive officer of SBI MF, and Denys de Campigneulles the deputy chief executive officer.
 
The news published on the date September 26, 2023 04:49 PM IST with headline  How have India’s oldest MF schemes rewarded investors?
 
The news published on the date September 27, 2023 02:36 PM IST with headline  Micro-cap stocks' rally draws mutual funds. Should you invest? is: 
 Companies that come after the Nifty 500 in terms of total market capitalisation are usually considered micro-caps. Despite pricey valuations, Indian mutual funds’ exposure to micro-cap stocks has risen at a quicker pace compared to the growth of overall equity assets, raising concerns from a risk perspective.Data available with the Prime MF Database showed that the value of micro-cap stocks in all the mutual fund schemes has risen from Rs 45,482 crore in September 2022 to Rs 60,229 crore in August 2023, a rise of 32 percent during the period. This rise also reflects the sharp rise in stock prices of small- and mid-sized companies during this period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDuring the same time, the overall equity assets under management (AUM) of the Rs 46.33 lakh crore mutual fund industry rose by 22 percent to Rs 22.07 lakh crore.While investing, mutual funds have to stick with the classification of market capitalisations laid down by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in 2017. Large-caps are defined as the 1st to 100th companies in terms of full market capitalisation, mid-caps as the 101st to 250th companies, and small-caps as the 251st company onwards in terms of full market capitalisation. This list is updated twice a year by the industry body, the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI).Also read | Nifty at 20,000: BAF fund managers cut equity exposure, shift to large-caps
 
The news published on the date September 25, 2023 07:19 AM IST with headline  Debt funds: Are the yields attractive enough to buy? is: 
 Rising equities ignite interest in private credit funds: Jhalaria of InCred Investments Expectations of a below-average monsoon, rising vegetable prices, and firm crude oil prices made many think that inflation would make a strong comeback around the time of the monetary policy announcement in August.However, inflation for August actually eased to 6.83 percent from a 15-month high of 7.44 percent in the previous month. Bond yields also came down slightly. Does that mean the upside in bond yields is over and this is a good time to allocate money to debt funds?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflationSticky inflation has been a cause of worry for many central bankers around the world who vowed to rein in price rises by hiking interest rates. Though the interest rate hikes have slowed, the tough talk on inflation continues.The Reserve Bank of India increased its inflation projection to 5.4 percent for FY24 in the August monetary policy committee review from 5.1 percent earlier. Though inflation in recent months had been higher than the 6 percent upper limit set by the RBI, experts said price rises may not cross that level again soon.
 
The news published on the date September 24, 2023 10:26 AM IST with headline  Microcaps that are fund house favourites but yet to unlock their potential
 
The news published on the date September 22, 2023 09:59 AM IST with headline  Nifty at 20,000: BAF fund managers cut equity exposure, shift to large-caps is: 
 Balanced Advantage Fund is one of the most popular categories in the Rs 44 lakh crore Indian mutual fund industry. With Nifty at 20,000 levels, balanced advantage funds (BAF), which give an insight into fund managers’ view of the market, are cutting down on equity exposure and betting on large-cap stocks instead of mid-cap and small-cap stocks, as market valuations turn pricey. Balanced advantage funds’ distinguishing feature is their ability to adjust the allocation between equity and debt based on market valuations and economic conditions. Therefore, these funds can be a good indicator of what fund managers are thinking about..
 
The news published on the date September 20, 2023 08:41 AM IST with headline  Got an email from your mutual fund? It could be important is: 
 SEBI has over the years mandated that mutual funds inform investors of important changes via email, if it affects their money. Many a time, investors get information pertaining to changes about the mutual fund schemes in which they have invested. Here we discuss some of the changes that often are communicated.Mutual fund investors keep getting emails from mutual fund houses. These emails carry not only the statement of investments but also other important pieces of information pertaining to the fund manager’s outlook, changes in the risk -o-meter (a pictorial representation of the degree of safety or lack of it of your investment that was designed as per guidelines laid down by the Association of Mutual Funds in India), expense ratio and other things. In some cases, the fund houses are duty-bound to inform the investor about the changes, hence the communications. Here is what you should be doing with them.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRisk-o-meterIn September 2023, Tata Gilt Securities Fund announced a change in its risk-o-meter from ‘moderate’ to ‘low’. That of Aditya Birla Sun Life Equity Savings Fund was revised to ‘low to moderate’ from ‘moderate’ earlier. Baroda BNP Paribas Money Market Fund’s risk-o-meter was changed from ‘low to moderate’ to ‘low’. There are many such instances being reported by other fund houses also. These are just a few examples of a scheme's risk-o-meter changing, but such changes happen frequently.The risk-o-meter was first introduced in 2015 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the financial market regulator. However, in the aftermath of the credit crisis in 2018, the regulator decided to revamp it. The new version launched in January 2021 called for a dynamic risk-o-meter with six levels of risk, based on the actual risk level of the mutual fund portfolio.
 
The news published on the date September 20, 2023 09:14 AM IST with headline  What Is Total Expense Ratio In A Mutual Fund And How It Is Calculated is: 
 TER is expressed as an annualised percentage of the assets of the fund. Under the Securities and Exchange Board of India's (SEBI) mutual fund regulations, asset management companies (AMCs) are allowed to charge certain operating expenses, or Total Expense Ratio (TER), for managing a mutual fund scheme. This amount is a percentage of the fund’s daily net assets. TER is expressed as an annualised percentage of the assets of the fund. Since the assets of open-ended funds vary on a daily basis, the proportionate TER is accounted for in the scheme’s net asset value (NAV) on every business day when the NAV of the scheme is published.The capital markets regulator is in the process of rationalising the TER. Towards this, it brought out a consultation paper in May this year and sought the public’s opinion on some key proposals.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, after getting stakeholders’ feedback, SEBI said in June it would come out with a revised second consultation paper on rationalising the TER. We take a look at what the TER is and how it is calculated.Components of TERMutual funds can charge operating expenses such as administrative expenses, transaction costs, investment management fees, registrar fees, custodian fees, and audit fees.Also read | Sept 30 MF nomination deadline nears, over 25 lakh PAN holders yet to update details
 
The news published on the date September 24, 2023 12:31 PM IST with headline  Risk mitigation strategy: low volatile largecap stocks held by smallcap funds
 
The news published on the date September 15, 2023 08:26 AM IST with headline  One year after Prashant Jain at HDFC MF: How the fund house has coped is: 
 Prashant Jain, one of the longest serving fund managers in India, hung up his boots in July 2022, bringing to a close his 28-year stint. Losing a good fund manager is tough on any asset management company (AMC), but finding a replacement for someone who has earned gains of around Rs 87,000 crore over the years can be near impossible. This happened at HDFC Asset Management Co Ltd (India’s third largest fund house with assets worth Rs 5.31 lakh crore) when Prashant Jain, one of the longest serving fund managers in India, hung up his boots in July 2022, bringing to a close his 28-year..
 
The news published on the date September 14, 2023 07:55 AM IST with headline  Why is Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC changing the investment strategy of its focused fund? is: 
 Mutual Funds In a notice sent out to the investors in units of Aditya Birla Sun Life Focused Equity Fund (ABF), the fund house, Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, has proposed to change the investment strategy of the scheme. What is changing? The fund house has decided to give more freedom to the fund manager by allowing him to pick the portfolio stocks of companies across market capitalisations – large-, mid-, and small-cap. Extant mandates allow only large-cap stocks in the portfolio..
 
The news published on the date September 17, 2023 09:29 PM IST with headline  Nifty at 20K: These stocks had low weight on index - Active funds got the bet right
 
The news published on the date November 29, 2023 03:12 PM IST with headline  Nifty reclaims 20,000: Here’s what you should do with your mutual fund investments is: 
 A key concern of investors when an index hits all-time high is whether the valuations are expensive or not. The NSE benchmark Nifty 50 reclaimed the 20,000-level on November 29. This is nudging some investors to change their mutual fund investment strategy.Over the past three years, mid- and small-cap stocks have outperformed large-cap stocks by a huge margin.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Interest rates in the US have peaked, and the dollar index is declining, which is expected to attract foreign institutional investor (FII) inflows into the Indian equity market. Despite strong fundamentals, volatility is expected leading up to the state election results. However, any weakness caused by this could present a compelling buying opportunity. The market appears primed for a pre-election rally, and we can anticipate the Nifty soon surpassing 21,000. The 19,500 level will now serve as a support level,” said Santosh Meena, Head of Research, Swastika Investmart.Nifty 50 had hit this level for the first time on September 11 this year. On a year-to-date basis, Nifty 50 Total Return Index (TRI) has gained 47 percent, while Nifty Midcap 100 TRI has risen 105.9 percent, while Nifty Smallcap 250 TRI is up 117.3 percent."Recent equity returns have been high. One should not project these returns as normal returns for the future. A conservative estimate for future equity returns will enable investors to meet any financial contingency," said Rajeev Thakkar, Chief Investment Officer (CIO) and Director of PPFAS Asset Management Company.
 
The news published on the date September 12, 2023 01:23 PM IST with headline  Why are large-cap funds losing money? is: 
 Mutual Funds The Nifty 50 touched the 20,000-mark on September 11, 2023. However, investors have been selling their holdings in large-cap equity funds for four months in a row, says the monthly data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Since September 2022, large-cap funds have seen net outflows (more money went out than came in) of Rs 4,225 crore – the highest among all equity fund categories. Large-cap funds, as a category, have given 12.89 percent returns on an..
 
The news published on the date September 17, 2023 06:28 PM IST with headline  13 Smallcap Gems That Infrastructure Mutual Funds Love to Hold
 
The news published on the date September 11, 2023 03:15 PM IST with headline  Equity fund inflows surge 165% to Rs 20,245 cr in August, small-cap funds in demand is: 
 Net inflows into equity funds have remained in the positive territory for the 30th month in a row in August. Inflows into equity mutual funds surged 165 percent to Rs 20,245 crore in August driven by heavy demand in small-cap and sectoral funds, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) released on September 11 showed.Open-ended equity mutual funds had recorded a 12 percent decline in net inflows to Rs 7,626 crore in July as large-cap funds grappled with outflows.Net inflows into equity funds have remained in the positive territory for the 30th month in a row in August starting with March 2021.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAMFI data also showed that the contribution via systematic investment plans (SIPs) hit a fresh all-time high of Rs 15,814 crore in August. In July as well, the SIP book was at record high of Rs 15,245 crore.Also read | Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme 2023-2024 Series II opens today; should you buy?N.S. Venkatesh, CEO, AMFI, said, “Economic growth is expected to improve, and the markets are expected to grow. India hosted very successfully the G20 summit this year, which has generated positive sentiments for the country and its economy on the global platform. Thus, the overall outlook for the mutual fund industry in India continues to be positive.”
 
The news published on the date September 11, 2023 08:47 AM IST with headline  SEBI has introduced 6 new ESG flavours, but is there a case for investing in such funds? is: 
 SEBI requires ESG funds to invest primarily in those companies that have comprehensive Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) disclosures. A few weeks back, SEBI allowed asset management companies (AMCs) to launch up to six different types of funds under the ESG category of mutual funds. With this expansion in scope of the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) category, it seems the regulator wants to support the increasing need for green finance by channeling more and more mutual fund investments towards ESG-complaint companies.However, this will lead to further confusion for the end-investor, who is anyway overwhelmed with the multitude of fund categories and schemes that are on offer.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs a category, ESG funds never quite took off, and they have just over Rs 10,000 crore in combined AUM (assets under management) across a handful of schemes.Six new ESG sub-categories As explained in this article, ESG funds now come in the following six flavours: i) ESG-exclusion, ii) ESG-integration, iii) ESG-best-in-class & positive screening, iv) ESG-impact investing, v) ESG-sustainable objectives, and vi) ESG-transition or transition-related.
 
The news published on the date September 09, 2023 07:08 PM IST with headline  The pros and cons of investing in the Nifty Total Market Index Fund is: 
 Groww Nifty Total Market Index Fund would be first of its kind in India, spread over 750 stocks, including micro-caps. Groww Mutual Fund, among the smallest asset management companies in India, recently received approval from the Securities and Exchange Board of India for its Nifty Total Market Index Fund.When launched, the Groww Nifty Total Market Index Fund would be first of its kind in India, spread over 750 stocks, including micro-caps. Here’s how this strategy works.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnder the bonnetGroww Nifty Total Market Index Fund would be the first passive scheme in India that will offer exposure to 750 stocks, across all market capitalisations.Unlike the Nifty 50, which is a blue-chip index, all stocks in the Nifty 500 and the Nifty Microcap 250 form part of the Nifty Total Market Index Fund. The fund will passively invest in the top 750 stocks across large-, mid- and small- capitalisation categories.
 
The news published on the date September 06, 2023 06:05 PM IST with headline  How to select a good financial advisor | Simply Save is: 
 Given the growing influence of financial influencers (finfluencers) and freely available advice on investment propagated on social media, the importance of investment advisors has gained much more relevance today.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo listen to the podcast, click above. To read the podcast conversation, scroll down.Spurred by several complaints about the mis-selling of products over the years, the Securities and Exchange Board of India issued the Investment Advisor Regulations in 2013 to make them accountable. As per SEBI’s laws, those who give investment advisory services in consideration for a fee are mandated to be registered with SEBI.Investment advice refers to information related to the buying or selling of stocks, financial planning, investment management, retirement planning, tax planning, and estate planning. Investment advisors are well-qualified to analyse the financial conditions of clients and recommend investment opportunities.
 
The news published on the date September 06, 2023 11:59 AM IST with headline  Will Zerodha’s proposed scheme put the spotlight on Nifty LargeMidcap 250? is: 
 Zerodha MF gets ready to launch its first two mutual fund schemes. Files draft documents with SEBI. On September 4, Zerodha Mutual Fund, one of the newest entrants into the Rs 45 lakh crore Indian mutual funds industry, filed draft papers with the capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), for launching its first two passive funds. Interestingly, the asset management company (AMC) has chosen the Nifty LargeMidcap 250 index as the basis for both equity-linked savings scheme (ELSS) and non-ELSS offerings. In recent times, there has been a lot of activity in the passive..
 
The news published on the date September 06, 2023 12:06 PM IST with headline  Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge Capital receives final SEBI nod for mutual fund business is: 
 Founded by Kenneth Andrade, Old Bridge Capital Management was incorporated in December 2015. Old Bridge Capital Management, a portfolio management firm, has received the final approval from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to commence its mutual fund operations, it announced on September 6.Old Bridge Mutual Fund when launched will become the 48th fund house in the Rs 46 lakh crore asset management industry in India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFounded by Kenneth Andrade, Old Bridge Capital Management was incorporated in December 2015."We are delighted to receive this license to commence operations for Old Bridge Mutual Fund and will be launching our maiden actively managed equity scheme. As we move forward with our newly acquired license, we remain committed to providing investors with long term investment solutions on its mutual funds platform as well,” said Kenneth Andrade, Founder & Chief Investment Officer, Old Bridge Capital Management.Also read | Why WhiteOak Capital’s new fund doesn’t offer a dividend option
 
The news published on the date September 05, 2023 09:47 AM IST with headline  Why WhiteOak Capital’s new fund doesn’t offer a dividend option is: 
 Most active mutual fund schemes – equity, debt or hybrid – offer dividend and growth options. While the growth option is used by investors keen on long-term compounding of money, the dividend option is used by investors who are keen to get cash periodically from their investments. There’s something peculiar about WhiteOak Capital Multi Cap Fund (WMCF), launched on August 31: It does not have a dividend, or income distribution cum capital withdrawal (IDCW) option. It comes with only a growth option. This is the third such launch by White Oak Capital Asset Management, ranked 31 among India’s fund houses. White Oak Capital Multi-Asset Allocation Fund (launched in May 2023) and White Oak Capital Balanced Advantage Fund (launched in February 2023) also came with just the growth option;..
 
The news published on the date September 05, 2023 06:00 AM IST with headline  Zerodha MF gets ready to launch its first two schemes; files draft documents with SEBI is: 
 Zerodha AMC got in-principal approval in September last year. Zerodha Asset Management Ltd, one of India’s newest fund houses, is getting to ready to launch mutual fund schemes, nearly a month after it got its final license by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).In keeping with its mandate to launch passive scheme, Zerodha has filed draft offer documents with the market regulator to launch two schemes -- Zerodha Tax Saver (ELSS) Nifty Large Midcap 250 Index Fund and Zerodha Nifty Large Midcap 250 Index Fund (ZN250).Story continues below AdvertisementBoth the schemes would be benchmarked against Nifty Large Midcap 250 Index Fund. While one is a normal diversified equity fund, the ELSS scheme is a tax saver scheme that will give the Section 80C tax deduction benefits, up to an investment of Rs 1.5 lakh.As per its business plan, Zerodha AMC will launch passive schemes. According to industry officials, the fund house will launch a mix of index funds as well as Exchange-Traded Funds (ETF)
 
The news published on the date September 01, 2023 06:10 PM IST with headline  Franklin Templeton MF receives final Rs 1,398 crore payment from Vodafone Idea is: 
 The bonds were held in 13 segregated portfolios of five Franklin Templeton schemes. Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) has received a total sum of Rs 1,398 crore for five of its schemes as part of the payment of interest on bonds held from telecom company Vodafone Idea on September 1.As per the fund house, this is the full and final payment and the payout will be processed by extinguishing all outstanding units in the plans of the said segregated portfolio of respective schemes based on NAV as on September 1, 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe five schemes are Franklin India Low Duration, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual, and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund.Also read | Do mutual funds pay maximum commission to their associate distributors?The bonds were held in 13 segregated portfolios of these schemes, and investors holding units of these schemes’ side pockets will receive the money in their bank accounts in the next few days.
 
The news published on the date September 01, 2023 07:56 PM IST with headline  Do mutual funds pay maximum commission to their associate distributors? is: 
 Top five commission-paying asset management companies (AMCs) are all backed by banks. As per the disclosures made by mutual funds (MFs) and the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI) — the MF industry’s trade body — banks and national distributors are among the 20 largest distributors in the country by way of their commission income.A deeper analysis of commissions indicates that bank-sponsored fund houses relied heavily on their parent bank’s branch network or associate distributors to sell their MF schemes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor the financial year 2022-23 (FY23), data available with the Prime MF Database showed that NJ India Invest was the biggest mutual fund distributor (MFD) in terms of commissions earned at Rs 1,539 crore. It was followed by State Bank of India (Rs 905 crore), HDFC Bank (Rs 669 crore), Prudent Corporate Advisory Services (Rs 583 crore) and Axis Bank (Rs 542 crore).All in the familyData sourced from the Prime MF Database shows that the top five commission-paying asset management companies (AMCs) are all backed by banks.
 
The news published on the date September 02, 2023 08:43 AM IST with headline  The quality test: Should you invest in smart beta funds focusing on quality?
 
The news published on the date September 03, 2023 07:07 PM IST with headline  Meet India’s 20 biggest mutual fund distributors based on commission earned is: 
 Commission paid out to mutual fund distributors has nearly doubled from Rs 6,138 crore in FY 2019-20 to Rs 12,049 crore, currently. The net commission earned by Indian mutual fund distributors jumped 16 percent to Rs 12,049 crore during the financial year 2022-23 amid a consistent rise in the assets under management (AUM) of mutual funds, data available with Prime Database showed.The data covers around 2,000 distributors as per the capital market regulator’s guidelines to shortlist distributors whose commission records need to be disclosed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the mutual fund industry, the fund house pays commission to the distributor based on how long investors stay invested in the scheme.Also read | Eight financial changes that may impact you this SeptemberInterestingly, commission paid out to mutual fund distributors (MFDs) has nearly doubled from Rs 6,138 crore in FY 2019-20 to Rs 12,049 crore, currently, data available with Prime Database showed.
 
The news published on the date August 31, 2023 08:28 AM IST with headline  Debt funds still work, even without indexation benefits is: 
 Bond Funds When the Finance Act 2023 took away the indexation benefit from taxation of debt mutual funds, it was initially considered a big jolt. When something that we are used to is taken away, our reaction is adverse. Then, we get used to the change.The Finance Act stated that mutual fund schemes with less than 35 percent allocation to equity – essentially debt funds – and a few other fund categories will be taxed as short-term capital gains, irrespective of the holding period. The dividend option of funds, which is called income distribution cum capital withdrawal option, was anyway taxable at the marginal slab rate of the investor.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: Buy-and-hold: Mutual Fund schemes that churn the leastFor investments from April 1 this year, the growth option of debt funds has been made taxable at the marginal slab rate of the investor. Earlier, for investments made till March 31 and a holding period of three years or more in the growth option of a debt fund, the tax rate was 20 percent after indexation.Indexation effectively lowered the tax rate significantly. It was felt that without this taxation advantage, fresh investments in debt funds would be adversely impacted.Money still coming
 
The news published on the date August 31, 2023 09:32 AM IST with headline  WhiteOak Capital Mutual Fund launches multi-cap scheme: A Moneycontrol review is: 
 Eight new funds under the multi-cap category have been launched over the past year. WhiteOak Capital Mutual Fund, which is among the newest entrants into the Indian asset management industry, has expanded its portfolio with the launch of a multi-cap fund on August 31. Multi-cap equity funds, which have caught fund houses’ fancy in recent times, have a mandate of investing a minimum of 25 percent each to large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap stocks. Overall, eight new funds under this category have been launched over the past year. Investors have also been warming up to these funds..
 
The news published on the date August 30, 2023 01:52 PM IST with headline  The race for returns: How active largecap funds are acing the game is: 
 The rally in mid-cap stocks has surpassed its large cap counterparts and some of that is trickling into the alpha created by active large-cap funds. Actively managed large-cap funds have turned the corner after being criticised for their inability to outperform their passive counterparts. But it has been a rough ride so far, for large-cap funds. In the last few years, large-cap funds were under pressure as they showed an incrementally slower rate of benchmark outperformance of active funds in the large cap category against their benchmark indices. This, combined with the narrowing of this category’s investable universe, meant that investor demand for lower cost index..
 
The news published on the date September 04, 2023 06:04 AM IST with headline  SEBI’s proposed fee collection portal for advisors evokes mixed response is: 
 As per SEBI regulations, payment of fees by clients to investment advisors has to go through a mode that shows traceability of funds. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) proposes to create a closed ecosystem for registered investment advisors and research analysts to collect fees from their clients. This will help investors identify and avoid unregistered entities.This is part of SEBI’s overall drive to protect investors from financial influencers (finfluencers) or unregistered entities that may misguide or exploit investors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn another consultation paper, SEBI has proposed that registered entities or intermediaries should have no relationship with unregistered finfluencers for any promotion or advertisement of their services.How will the proposed payment system work?As per SEBI regulations, payment of fees by clients to investment advisors (IAs) has to go through a mode that shows traceability of funds. It prohibits payment of fees in cash. Similarly for research analysts (RAs) who charge fees for the services offered by them.
 
The news published on the date October 02, 2023 09:04 PM IST with headline  Has FundsIndia’s pivot brought mutual fund distributors back into the limelight? is: 
 To scale up their existing B2B model, FundsIndia will rely on a network of on-ground distributors to sell MFs to customers. Chennai-based FundsIndia.com (Wealth India Financial Services), one of India’s earliest online mutual fund (MF) investment platforms, changed hands once again, when private equity (PE) firm, WestBridge Capital bought it over from the existing PE investors, Inventus Capital, Foundation Capital and Faering Capital, recently.WestBridge Capital’s acquisition and its intent to scale the platform’s business-to-business (B2B) channel perhaps points to backing off on robo advisors; a trend many experts thought the Rs 40 trillion Indian MF industry was moving towards. Robo advisors provide financial planning and investment services through automated algorithms and software to build and manage one’s investment portfolio, and can include automatic rebalancing, tax optimisation, and more.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe firm has also hired Manish Gadhvi, who was earlier a senior official at NJ India Invest, India’s largest MF distribution firms by commissions received. As CEO of the B2B business, Gadhvi is now tasked with growing the distributor-led channel at FundsIndia.A few years ago, the advent of online MF platforms that enabled easy investment in direct (no commission) MF plans, or those not sold through a distributor, had raised questions about the future of distributors. If you can buy a MF with the click of a button, from the comfort of your home or office, who needs a distributor, right?But for many, investing is not just about the ease of transacting. What many investors also want is personalised advice from someone they know and can trust. That’s where MF distributors (individuals) come in. They accounted for 28 percent of the MF industry’s assets in 2022-23 going by Bandhan Mutual Fund’s MF Trend FY 2023 Report.
 
The news published on the date September 03, 2023 07:02 PM IST with headline  MC30 scheme review: Why PGIM India Midcap Opportunities Fund is a long-term wealth creator
 
The news published on the date August 25, 2023 03:10 PM IST with headline  We want to ensure there is performance in every scheme going forward: LIC MF CEO is: 
 TS Ramakrishnan, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, LIC MF. LIC Mutual Fund, India’s 23rd biggest asset management company (AMC), which merged IDBI MF effective July 29, is undertaking a review of the schemes that got added to its portfolio from the merger, TS Ramakrishnan, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, LIC MF said.With the completion of the merger, out of 20 schemes of erstwhile IDBI MF, 10 got merged with similar schemes of LIC MF and 10 will continue with the merged AMC on a standalone basis.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe 10 standalone schemes include small-cap, mid-cap, dividend yield and gold fund. The fund house is betting on these schemes, which have been in demand in the recent past, to boost its AUM further.LIC MF, which had assets under management of Rs 24,133 crore at the end of July 2023, is sponsored by the Life Insurance Corporation in India (LIC).Performance driven
 
The news published on the date August 26, 2023 11:16 AM IST with headline  10 most popular large-cap stocks among PMS to withstand volatility
 
The news published on the date August 24, 2023 08:40 AM IST with headline  Bottom-fishing: Mutual funds launch tech funds as IT sector bleeds is: 
 Mutual Funds Mutual fund houses are often criticised for launching schemes that track themes and sectors that have done better in the recent past. Such a strategy attracts significant inflows, as investors are willing to write cheques based on past performance. However, this time, mutual fund houses are launching schemes focusing on the information technology (IT) sector, which is not in the best of health. In the last year ended August 21, 2023, technology sector funds have given 5.06 percent returns compared to 18.12 percent given by multicap funds, as per Value Research.At this juncture, the new fund offers (NFOs) of Bandhan Nifty IT Index Fund and Quant Teck Fund are open for subscription, while the NFO of HDFC Technology Fund (HTF) will open on August 25, 2023. Axis Nifty IT Index Fund and DSP Nifty IT ETF reopened for continuous subscription last month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTech sector fundsLike any other sector fund, these technology sector schemes invest at least 80 percent of the money in shares of companies in the IT sector. Thirteen technology sector funds manage assets worth Rs 28,864 crore as on July 31, 2023. Some of these are actively managed and also invest some money in IT stocks listed overseas. The passively managed schemes track the Nifty IT Index, which comprises 10 stocks from the sector. At present, there are 11 such funds. Nifty India Digital is a more diversified index consisting of 30 companies that represent the digital theme. The Tata Nifty India Digital ETF tracks this index.
 
The news published on the date August 23, 2023 03:24 PM IST with headline  Quantum Mutual Fund files for multi-asset allocation scheme is: 
 Experts see the fund house’s move in the light of changed taxation rules. Quantum Mutual Fund has filed for Quantum Multi Asset Allocation Fund (QMAF). The fund house has filed the scheme information document (SID) with the capital market regulator – Securities and Exchange Board of India. The fund house is known for its focus on value investing and has a few schemes. Launched in September 2005, the fund house manages assets (AUM) worth Rs 2,293 crore as on July 31, 2023, spread across 11 schemes, as per ACE MF.As per QMAF, the fund manager will invest 35 to 65 percent of the money in stocks, 25 to 55 percent of the money in bonds and 10 to 20 percent of the money in gold and related instruments. The fund manager will ascertain the allocation to each of the asset classes mentioned above after taking into account various factors including price/earnings ratio relative to historical averages; the relationship between earnings yield to bond yield relative to historical averages and macroeconomic factors prevailing globally, and within India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSID further makes it clear that the equity component will be predominantly invested in securities of the Nifty 50 index and the debt component will include high-quality bonds, wherein the fund managers will manage the duration actively, depending on their view on interest rates.ALSO READ: Sweet medicine: Small-cap pharma and healthcare stocks that MF intakeThe fund house already has a scheme - Quantum Multi Asset Allocation Fund of Funds which has AUM of Rs 53 crore and invests in various schemes of Quantum mutual fund that feed into gold, bond and equity funds. The scheme has given 8.79 percent in three years ended August 22, 2023 compared to 15.07 percent returns given by multi-asset allocation funds as a category, as per Value Research.
 
The news published on the date August 23, 2023 10:50 AM IST with headline  Business cycle funds are booming, but should you invest? is: 
 India is in the middle of an economic as well as business expansionary cycle. Business cycle funds, which look to take incremental exposure to businesses that stand to benefit from the expansion in the economy, have been gaining traction over the past two years. From just one fund in December 2020, the number of business cycle funds has grown to 10 now. Indian asset management companies such as HDFC, Kotak, Axis and Aditya Birla Sun Life have come up with their schemes in the category. From Rs 518 crore assets in December 2020, the assets..
 
The news published on the date August 28, 2023 06:29 PM IST with headline  Hot small-cap pharma and healthcare stocks that MFs hold currently
 
The news published on the date August 23, 2023 07:09 AM IST with headline  Why gold is a good asset class now, as the US heads for a slowdown is: 
 A widening US fiscal deficit has been undermining tight monetary policy and supporting US growth. As sustained positive economic data comes in from the United States, financial markets have been pulling back bets on the world’s largest economy falling into recession.According to the latest Gross Domestic Product (GDP) estimates, the US economy is set to grow at an annualised rate of 2.4 percent in the second quarter of 2023, topping the 2 percent growth in the first quarter.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUS labour markets also continue to show resilience. The private sector in the US has seen a sustained addition of jobs. The US unemployment rate continues to be at historically low levels. The other widely tracked elements of the US economy, like consumer confidence, retail sales, service sector PMI, wage growth and housing prices (although weakening housing activity) have also displayed robustness.ALSO READ: How to minimise your taxes on endowment insurance policiesAll this, despite the US benchmark interest rates being taken up by a massive 525 basis points to a 22-year high in a little over a year. On the other hand, headline inflation in the US has been cooling off sequentially. A win-win situation some might say.
 
The news published on the date August 22, 2023 06:37 PM IST with headline  Digital investment platform FundsIndia sells majority stake to Westbridge Capital is: 
 The platform also announced that Manish Gadhvi has joined Fundsindia as chief executive officer of the B2B partner business. FundsIndia, which offers investment options such as mutual funds, stocks, insurance and fixed deposits, among others, on August 22 announced that US-based Westbridge Capital has picked a majority stake in the platform.The financial details of the deal were not immediately known.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol has reached out to FundsIndia for a comment, and we will update the story as and when we get it.As per FundsIndia, investment firm Westbridge Capital manages over Rs 62,000 crore of capital across Investment funds. Over the course of their careers, the team at Westbridge Capital has led investments in over 150 companies over the last 20 years including HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Star Health Insurance, Bajaj Finance and AU Small Finance Bank.Also read | Can Shriram Mutual Fund rise from its comatose state and be counted?
 
The news published on the date October 02, 2023 09:04 PM IST with headline  Can Shriram Mutual Fund rise from its comatose state and be counted? is: 
 Kartik Jain, MD & CEO, Shriram AMC Of the 15 new fund offers (NFO) in the Rs 46-trillion Indian mutual funds (MF) industry that are going on at the moment, one name stands out. Shriram Multi Asset Allocation Fund, a scheme launched by Shriram Mutual Fund, India’s smallest mutual fund house with assets worth over Rs 284 crore. Nothing unusual about the new scheme. But it’s hard to believe that this tiniest mutual fund house India is 29 years old. What could have been one of India’s..
 
The news published on the date August 22, 2023 07:50 AM IST with headline  How diversification helps when investing for your child's education is: 
 Diversification plays a crucial role in investing. However, you must rebalance your portfolio from time to time. Investing isn't a matter of luck; it requires careful consideration, especially when it concerns your child's education and future. Therefore, it's essential to focus on risk management just as much as we do on potential returns.What is risk?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs Prof. Aswath Damodaran says, “Risk is a combination of danger and opportunity. You cannot have one without the other."In finance, risk is categorised into two types: systematic and unsystematic.Let's illustrate this with a straightforward example: If we had placed all our savings into a single company, such as Yes Bank, we could have faced substantial losses attributed to company-specific risk.
 
The news published on the date August 18, 2023 10:42 AM IST with headline  Why are investors selling ESG funds? is: 
 There have been no new ESG fund launches in the past 24 months. Sustainable mutual fund schemes or thematic funds based on Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) mandates have failed to find many takers in India, as assets under management (AUM) in this category have shrunk by Rs 1,060 crore in the first six months of the year. According to a report by Morningstar India, after a handful of sustainable fund launches in 2020, there have been no new fund launches in the past 24 months. At the end of June 2023, assets..
 
The news published on the date August 19, 2023 08:41 AM IST with headline  MF investment in these 12 midcaps, smallcaps surges 3-fold and more in 6 months
 
The news published on the date August 17, 2023 07:33 AM IST with headline  Greed is creeping in now. Instead, it’s time to fix your past mistakes: Nishant Agarwal of ASK Private Wealth is: 
 Nishant Agarwal- ASK Wealth Advisors Equity markets are moving in a narrow range after hitting a new high. Investors are bullish on stocks and have been pouring money into equity mutual funds. The interest-rate hike cycle appears to be behind us. At this juncture, we caught up with Nishant Agarwal, Senior Managing Partner, ASK Private Wealth. He shared insights on various issues faced by investors in various asset classes. Edited excerpts from the interview: How do you assess the current investment landscape? Will investors make..
 
The news published on the date August 16, 2023 08:12 AM IST with headline  The pros and cons of the special situations investment strategy is: 
 In a special situation strategy, the fund manager identifies and aims to capitalise on unique events or circumstances that can impact the value of a particular investment What do you look for when you buy a company’s share? You look for a story -- or better still two or three -- as to why the company’s share price is mostly likely to go up in the weeks or months ahead. Sometimes this story is structural; it might not happen immediately. But when it happens, your share price might see a quantum jump, a sort of once-in-a-lifetime jump. There’s a special breed of mutual fund (MF) schemes that..
 
The news published on the date August 17, 2023 09:36 AM IST with headline  Cautious of market highs: Here are the most sold small-cap stocks by MFs
 
The news published on the date August 14, 2023 09:15 AM IST with headline  Should you invest in infrastructure mutual funds? Know the risks and opportunities is: 
 To participate in the India growth story, infrastructure mutual funds offer great investment opportunities. The government’s focus on infrastructure investment is reflected in the double-digit growth in capital outlay assigned to the sector in the last few years. In the Union Budget 2023-24, the capital expenditure outlay was increased to a massive Rs10 lakh crore, an over 35 per cent growth in the expenditure outlay in FY2021-22 and FY2022-23 as per the latest Economic Survey.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGBS=Gross Budgetory Support, Source: Economis Survey 2022-2023The Survey reveals that nearly 65-70 per cent of the outlay has actually been spent in the last 2 years. This is reflected in the IIP (Index of Industrial Production) numbers if you look at the capital goods and infrastructure/construction goods category which have a roughly 20 per cent combined weightage (Refer to the table).After negative growth in Covid, the capital goods and infrastructure goods category clocked double-digit growth for the first time since the last decade in 2021-22 and 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date August 14, 2023 08:42 AM IST with headline  Fund Funda: Why Nippon India MF’s Shailesh Raj Bhan is bullish on innovative firms is: 
 Shailesh Raj Bhan, chief investment officer, Nippon India Asset Management Co Ltd On August 9, Nippon India Mutual Fund, India’s fourth largest fund house with assets worth around Rs 3.03 trillion, launched a new scheme that aims to invest in innovative companies. The Nippon India Innovations Fund (NIIF) will be the 133rd new fund offer (NFO) launched by the Rs 40 trillion Indian mutual funds (MF) industry this year (and we’re only past the halfway mark). Nippon India MF already has 17 equity funds, 19 exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and six index funds. But the..
 
The news published on the date August 14, 2023 04:06 PM IST with headline  Why ICICI Pru’s Anand Shah sees more jobs, higher income coming soon is: 
 Anand Shah is Head, PMS & AIF Investments, ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Are these market levels sustainable? Everyone is asking that question about the equities markets after the recent highs. Is it time to consider whether this is the start of another bull run? Or more importantly, should you now start selling?A pertinent point here is that even though the markets have made new highs, valuations are not at a new high. While valuations are not absolutely cheap, they are lower than when they were at the previous peak in October 2021, which makes us believe that the market is not ‘euphoric’. That also makes us wonder about the underlying forces of these developments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEncouraging earnings growthOne immediate factor that comes to mind is that earnings have been encouraging across the board. Since the market peak in October 2021, earnings have been on the uptick, and markets have rewarded those companies, from the top 500 by market capitalisation, that showed significant improvement in earnings as well as improvement in return on equity (ROE).The markets have fairly rewarded companies that have achieved earnings growth, maintained reasonable valuations, and lastly, where an earnings upgrade actually materialised.
 
The news published on the date August 14, 2023 02:15 PM IST with headline  Mid-cap, micro-cap and small-caps look expensive; stick with large-caps now: Nilesh Shah is: 
 Indian Overseas Bank, RHI Magnesita, and Hindustan Copper outperform broader markets. Indian markets are trading near all-time high levels. However, they are trading only a little above their fair valuation. The Triveni Sangam of fund flow, positive sentiments and strong fundamentals are driving the rally.Money is flowing from domestic as well as global investors. They are aggressively buying in the secondary market even though sellers are reluctant to sell. Primary markets were not seeing large deals, but there has been some pick-up in recent times with more than three dozen Initial Public Offerings (IPO) lined up. In the secondary market, selling was done primarily by promoters and private equity /venture capital funds. Aggressive fund flows pushed the valuation above their fair value.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol is bringing to you a special series to capture India's rising economic might, as it emerges stronger from the pandemic amid a sluggish world economy. Find out more.This rally is driven by sentiments that have turned distinctly positive for India. India is an oasis in the global desert. India is the fastest-growing major economy in the world. It has inflation within the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) target range despite a sharp hike in tomato prices in recent times. It is one of the few major economies that has positive real interest rates. Foreign exchange (FX) reserves are the fourth highest globally and more than Net FX debt. India’s trade deficit and fiscal deficit are under control. Government-led investment has been picking up. The Rupee is remarkably stable and is one of the least volatile currencies in the world. India, which moved from 10th largest economy in 2014 to 5th largest economy in 2022, is destined to move to 3rd largest economy in the next few years.
 
The news published on the date August 12, 2023 11:24 AM IST with headline  Why Max Life Nifty Smallcap Quality Index Fund is a smart investment decision? is: 
 India’s growth story is now a well-established fact and is being recognized globally. In a world of slowing economic growth rates, India is climbing up the ranks and is all set to achieve $5 trillion GDP size in the coming years. As a retail investor you might be wondering how can you also be a part of India’s incredible growth story.One way of achieving the objective is through equity investments in high quality small cap companies that offer strong growth potential. Let’s find out how Max Life Nifty Smallcap Quality Index Fund (SFIN: ULIF02702/08/23NIFTYSMALL104), the industry’s first small-cap index fund, can tap into India’s growth story, by replicating an Index that has provided CAGR returns in excess of 22% over a 10-year period (past performance does not guarantee future returns). But first the basics - why do small cap stocks make sense in the current situation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat are Small Cap Stocks and What’s the Reason for their Growth Potential?As per SEBI’s definition, the listed stocks in India can be divided into 3 key categories when ranked as per their free-float market capitalization*:· Large Cap Stocks: Rank 1st to 100th (Total companies 100)
 
The news published on the date August 11, 2023 09:09 PM IST with headline  Abans Holdings gets board's nod to enter mutual funds space is: 
 Abans Holdings, which got listed on the courses in December 2022, had assets under management (AUM) of Rs 1,850 crore as of June this year. Financial services firm Abans Holdings Ltd on Friday said it has secured board’s approval to diversify its operations and enter into the country’s mutual fund business. This strategic move will position the company at the forefront of asset management services, Abans Holdings said in a statement. In addition, the company said it has received board’s clearance for establishing an asset management business in Singapore."Through its subsidiary, Abans Broking Services Pvt Ltd, the company is proposing for making an application to obtain a capital markets license to engage in fund management activities in Singapore," the statement noted. Unveiling its expansion plans, the company announced that its subsidiary Abans Finance is in the process of incorporating a wholly-owned subsidiary in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City).Story continues below AdvertisementThis subsidiary will focus on lending business operations, strengthening the company’s foothold in the lending segment. Abans Holdings is looking to become a dominant player in alternative investments. The company serves as an investment manager for a category II alternative investment fund domestically.Furthermore, it is actively pursuing an investment manager license in GIFT City, which will enable it to manage a category-III alternative investment fund in the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC). Abans Holdings, which got listed on the courses in December 2022, had assets under management (AUM) of Rs 1,850 crore as of June this year
 
The news published on the date August 11, 2023 09:01 PM IST with headline  Zerodha AMC gets final nod, Vishal Jain to head as CEO: Nithin Kamath is: 
 Zerodha AMC got in-principal approval in September last year Zerodha has received the final regulatory nod to set up an asset management company (AMC), the discount broker's founder Nithin Kamath announced on August 11, adding that industry veteran Vishal Jain will head its operations as the chief executive officer (CEO)."We just received the final approval for the Zerodha AMC that we are building in partnership with Smallcase," Kamath posted on X, formerly known as Twitter. Smallcase, a wealth management firm, had in April announced a joint venture with Zerodho to launch the AMC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"I'm also excited that Vishal Jain, who's been part of the entire passive investing journey in India from day one, has joined us as a CEO to build the AMC," Kamath added.Zerodha had, in September 2022, received in-principal approval from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to set up the AMC. This came nearly 19 months after it had applied for a mutual fund licence in February 2021.Kamath, in a statement issued on X on the issuance of the final regulatory approval, said the company's motivation to start a mutual fund was twofold. "The first was that the biggest challenge and opportunity for Indian markets is the shallow participation. Even after all the growth over the last three years, we only have maybe 6-8 crore unique mutual fund and equity investors put together," he said.
 
The news published on the date August 11, 2023 06:05 PM IST with headline  SEBI reduces exit option window to 15 days in case of change in control of AMC is: 
 According to the prevailing guidelines, if an AMC opts to change a fundamental attribute of a mutual fund scheme then it must send a notice to that effect to all the unitholders. Then the unitholders are given a window of 30 days to redeem their units, without paying exit load. Capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on August 11 announced a reduction in the timeline for the exit option window period for change in control of an asset management company (AMC).ALSO READ: Personal Finance: What’s the right asset allocation to play an elevated interest rate situation?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs per extant guidelines when the control of an AMC changes hands, it is considered a change in fundamental attributes of the scheme. In line with the regulations, the investors in the mutual fund schemes are given an intimation. They are also given an exit load-free window of 30 days if they are not agreeing with the change and are keen to redeem their investments.ALSO READ: HDFC Bank eyes need-based product sales for new customers, post merger with HDFC“Considering that growth in technological communication has enabled faster dissemination of information to unitholders, a request has been received from industry to review the timeline for exit option window period for change in control of AMC,” the SEBI circular said.
 
The news published on the date August 11, 2023 12:53 PM IST with headline  SIPs ride the market rally with record 33.06 lakh fresh accounts in July is: 
 Over the last one year, approximately 23.30 lakh SIP accounts were added every month. Money pouring into mutual funds through systematic investment plans (SIPs) continues to be on the rise, with July logging a fresh all-time high in new SIP account registrations of 33.06 lakh. This is more than 20 percent higher than the previous record of 27.78 lakh seen in June.At the same time, some investors appear to be losing patience, as can be seen from the net tally of new SIP account registrations for July being 15.16 lakh. But that did not stop SIP inflows hitting an all-time high of Rs15,245 crore in July.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInterestingly, Gross SIP for the June was at Rs 14734 crore while Net SIP stood at Rs 5608 crore. Net SIP to gross SIP ratio was at 38 percent which is falling from the last few months compared to 70 percent last year. In April this ratio was 51 percent against 57 percent a year ago while in May it was at 39 percent versus 66 percent last year.Over the last year, an average of approximately 23.30 lakh new SIP accounts were added each month, leading to a cumulative addition of 279.58 crore accounts.
 
The news published on the date August 11, 2023 10:29 AM IST with headline  Bandhan Balanced Advantage Fund changes asset allocation model; should you be worried? is: 
 BBAF is a dynamic asset allocation scheme that invests in a mix of stocks and bonds depending on the relative attractiveness of the asset class. Bandhan Mutual Fund (earlier known as IDFC Mutual Fund) has sent out a notice to the unitholders of Bandhan Balanced Advantage Fund (BBAF) – listing out the change in the way it is going to decide the equity exposure of the scheme.What is changing?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBBAF is a dynamic asset allocation scheme that invests in a mix of stocks and bonds depending on the relative attractiveness of the asset class. The scheme manages assets worth Rs 2,402 crore as on July 30, 2023. Sachin Relekar, Sumit Agrawal and Vishal Baria manage the equity component whereas Brijesh Shah manages the debt component.As per the addendum dated July 5, 2023, the fund house has proposed to change the way it decides the extent of money allocated to equity. At present, a quantitative model based on weighted average price-to-earnings ratio (PE ratio) of Nifty 50 index is employed. For example, if the ratio quotes below 12, then the fund managers will allocate 90-100 percent of the money to equities, if the ratio stands between 12 and 16, then 75-90 percent of the money will be invested in stocks. The model prescribes investing more in equity if the PE ratio is low and cut the exposure to equity if the ratio is high. If the PE ratio goes above 26 then only 30-40 percent of the money in equities.ALSO READ: RBI MPC: Das calls for greater transparency in floating-rate loans
 
The news published on the date August 11, 2023 06:26 AM IST with headline  Samir Arora’s Helios Capital gets final SEBI nod for MF license; AMC to focus on active funds is: 
 This is kind of homecoming for Samir Arora, who was the Chief Investment Officer of Alliance Capital’s Indian mutual fund business from 1993 to 1998. Helios Capital Management has received final approval from capital markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to launch a mutual fund house, its founder Samir Arora announced on August 10.“I am very happy to announce that SEBI has granted approval to Helios Mutual Fund. We need your wishes and support to make this new venture a success,” Arora wrote on platform X, formerly Twitter.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn a response to Moneycontrol’s queries, Arora said that they would look to launch the fund house as soon as possible. “It would still take a few months,” he added.Arora also divulged that the fund house would look to focus only on active funds. This is against the trend of recent mutual fund house launches, which had focused on passive funds.Also read | RBI holds interest rates: Who wins, who loses
 
The news published on the date August 18, 2023 07:08 PM IST with headline  What's behind the contrasting investment trends in multi-cap and flexi-cap funds? is: 
 Mutual fund houses in India have increased their focus on multi-cap funds in the recent past. Multi-cap and flexi-cap funds, which invest across large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap stocks, have been witnessing contrasting trends in investments over the past three months.As per Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) data for July, multi-cap funds witnessed net inflows worth Rs 2,500 crore while flexi-cap funds saw outflows to the tune of Rs 932 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurther, over the last three months, multi-cap funds have seen investments of Rs 3,340 crore while flexi-cap funds saw net selling of Rs 1,317 crore.Both multi-cap and flexi-cap funds work under the same mandate of investing across market capitalisations, albeit to different degrees. What’s behind the difference in their fortunes?
 
The news published on the date August 10, 2023 02:14 PM IST with headline  RBI’s worry on inflation can impact debt funds. Here is what investors should do is: 
 The RBI’s commitment to control inflation indicates that it is in no hurry to cut interest rates. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), led by Governor Shaktikanta Das, chose to leave the policy interest rates unchanged.Though the status quo was in line with market expectations, the MPC opted to raise the inflation target for the financial year, which may add to investors’ worries. In this context, experts advise investing in debt funds investing in bonds, maturing in the short term.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflation remains a key concernThough inflation came down to 4.3 percent in May 2023, the inflation numbers are expected to be higher in July and August. Food prices remain a key variable and can push up inflation. The possibility of El Nino impacting the distribution of rains, and, thereby, farm output, can further push up prices. Globally, food and crude oil prices have inched up. Price of brent crude oil went to $87 per barrel on August 10, 2023, from $72 per barrel on May 31, 2023. These indicate a possibility of upward movement in inflation numbers.ALSO READ: 3 RBI announcements that will turbocharge UPI, UPI Lite
 
The news published on the date August 15, 2023 01:22 PM IST with headline  Manufacturing: The new hot stock picking ground for MFs. Here are their top midcap picks
 
The news published on the date August 09, 2023 05:46 PM IST with headline  Equity fund inflows dip 12 % in July, SIPs top Rs 15,000 crore for first time is: 
 Inflows into open-ended equity mutual funds had jumped 167 percent to Rs 8,637 crore in June 2023. Open-ended equity mutual funds recorded a 12 percent decline in net inflow to Rs 7,626 crore in July as large-cap funds continued to grapple with outflows, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) released on August 9, showed.Despite this, Indian investors remained disciplined in their investment approach with inflows into Systematic Investments Plans (SIPs) topping the Rs 15,000 crore for the first time ever, to touch Rs 15,245 crore during July against Rs 14,735 crore in June.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDespite the marginal fall in equity fund investments, net inflows remained in the positive territory for the 29th month in a row in July amid a bull run in the equity markets. In July, the BSE benchmark Sensex scaled 2.80 percent, while NSE Nifty 50 climbed 2.94 percent.N. S. Venkatesh, Chief Executive, AMFI, said, “The surge in retail investors' interest in mutual funds has translated into impressive inflows across scheme categories. The star performer this month has been SIP with an impressive 33.06 lakh new accounts registered and a record Rs 15,245 crores of monthly contribution. Moreover, the industry's assets under management (AUM) have grown by 25 percent on a yearly basis, underscoring mutual funds' significance in financialization of savings.”Also read | Retail investors prefer index funds over ETF while going passive: Motilal Oswal AMC Survey
 
The news published on the date August 08, 2023 06:02 PM IST with headline  Retail investors prefer index funds over ETF while going passive: Motilal Oswal AMC Survey is: 
 The mutual fund industry has seen an increased demand for passive funds over the last five years. The assets under management (AUM) of all passive funds put together stood at Rs 7 lakh crore as on March 31, 2023. As the number of takers for passive investing increases in the Indian mutual fund industry, the segment is witnessing some interesting trends. Though exchange-traded funds (ETF) emerged as preferred vehicles for passive investing in the USA, Indian investors are rather comfortable investing through index funds than ETFs.According to a survey done by Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company (MOAMC), 87 percent of the respondents invest through index funds, while 42 percent of the respondents invest through ETFs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMOAMC conducted the survey online during February-May 2023 and involved more than 2,000 investors across fund houses spread across the country. Around 56percent of the respondents were in the age group of 18-35 years, whereas 54 percent live in metro cities. Sixty-one percent of the respondents reported their annual income to be less than Rs 10 lakh.Also read: How Recurring Deposits are a smart option without risking the capitalAround 61 percent of the respondents said that they invested in at least one passive fund. Low cost, simplicity and market returns were cited as reasons for choosing passive products. Over half of the respondents (53 percent) said they increased their allocation to passive funds in the last 12 months.
 
The news published on the date August 08, 2023 03:50 PM IST with headline  At Rs 1.85 lakh crore, mutual funds see highest quarterly inflows in 4 years in April-June is: 
 Assets under management (AUM) of the industry stood at Rs 44.13 lakh crore as of June end, up 13 percent over the previous quarter. The first quarter of financial year 2024 started on a positive note, as open-ended mutual funds saw net inflows of Rs 1,84,789 crore, the highest in four years, with the fixed-income segment witnessing the lion’s share of inflows.As per the latest Morningstar India report, flows in open-ended funds started on a strong note during June quarter, with net inflows of Rs 1,23,613 crore in April, which dipped to Rs 59,879 crore in May and ended with a disappointing Rs 1,295 crore of inflows in June.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMeanwhile, assets under management (AUM) of the industry stood at Rs 44.13 lakh crore as of June end, up 13 percent over the previous quarter.Flows breakdownAs per the report, net flows into equity funds have been positive over the past nine quarters even as the momentum has been dropping since the last few quarters. In the June quarter, net flows fell significantly to Rs 18,358 crore, compared with Rs 48,766 crore inflows in the previous quarter.Also read | Why a separate healthcare fund is a must for those living with Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s diseasesThe total AUM of equity funds as of June stood at Rs 17.44 lakh crore, up by a sharp 15 percent since the last quarter. Equity funds form about 40 percent of the total open-ended fund universe.Weightwise, both the largecap and flexicap categories continued to lead the AUM split with approximately 15 percent and 16 percent, respectively, followed by midcap with 13 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn the other hand, net flows in fixed-income funds have been quite disappointing in the last few quarters. But the first quarter of FY24 saw net inflows of Rs 1.39 lakh crore, the second-highest quarterly inflows for the asset class.Also read | Mutual Fund Folio decoded: How to streamline and manage your investments effectivelyAfter six consecutive quarters, the asset class finally managed to turn the corner and see net inflows.Only four out of 16 fixed-income categories witnessed net outflows in the quarter ended June 2023. The liquid fund category (Rs 79,908 crore) and money market fund category (Rs 29,519 crore) managed to garner the lion’s share when it came to net flows during the quarter.M-cap trendThe smallcap category saw net inflows of Rs 10,937 crore in the first quarter, the highest-ever quarterly inflows for the category. This was also the ninth consecutive quarter in which the category witnessed net inflows. The smallcap category witnessed the highest net inflows for the open-end equity asset class during the quarter.The AUM for the smallcap equity category hit its peak of Rs 1.68 lakh in the quarter ended June.“Strong consistent net flows and favourable market conditions propped up the assets under management for the smallcap category to reach new heights,” Morningstar India said in the report.Also read | How Recurring Deposits are a smart option without risking the capitalLargecap funds saw net outflows worth Rs 3,359 crore during the quarter as against net inflows of Rs 1,981 crore in the previous quarter.Next, the midcap category saw net inflows for the 10th consecutive quarter, wherein it managed to garner inflows of Rs 4,735 crore. Interestingly, during the quarter, the midcap category received the second-highest net inflows in the open-end equity asset class, only behind the smallcap category.New kids on the blockCumulatively, about 40 index funds were launched in the first half of calendar year 2023; of these, there were 31 fixed-income index funds and nine equity-based index funds.In the quarter ended March 2023, passive index funds/target maturity funds garnered Rs 26,269 crore. The spike in flows in this segment could be attributed to the change in tax laws for the fixed-income mutual funds from fiscal year 2023-24, which takes away the indexation benefit offered to investors.Also read | Investors, therefore, largely chose to invest in these funds to avail the benefit of indexation before the end of the financial year.With the change in the fiscal year from April, the amount of fixed-income index funds in the June quarter was muted.In terms of fund houses, SBI Mutual Fund launched two open-end funds during the first half of 2023, namely SBI S&P BSE Sensex Index and SBI Dividend Yield Fund; the cumulative AUM of these two funds stands at Rs 4,583 crore, which is the highest among the launched funds.HDFC, on the other hand, launched 13 funds, and the cumulative AUM of these funds stood at Rs 3,218 crore.The overall open-ended mutual fund industry was well-diversified, and weightage-wise equity funds comprised around 39 percent of the total industry AUM, followed by fixed-income funds with 31 percent. The allocation/hybrid, solution, and other categories have approximately 12 percent, 1 percent, and 18 percent weightage, respectively
 
The news published on the date August 08, 2023 01:54 PM IST with headline  Mutual Fund Folio decoded: How to streamline and manage your investments effectively is: 
 Mutual fund folio can loosely be compared to an account in a bank. One can have multiple accounts in a bank. As simple as it is to invest in mutual funds (MF) these days, keeping track of your portfolio can become quite a task if you have too many investments and too many MF folios. But this can be avoided if you just know how to manage your MF folios.What is an MF folio?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMutual fund folio can loosely be compared to an account in a bank. One can have multiple accounts in a bank. Similarly, one can have multiple folios with a mutual fund house. Mutual funds also allow zero-balance folio. Simply put, if you sell all units of schemes held in a particular folio then it becomes a zero-balance folio. Such folios can be used again to invest in schemes of mutual fund schemes. Each mutual fund house issues a separate folio number. For subsequent investments, you are supposed to quote the same folio number if you want to keep your investment under one folio. Otherwise, a different folio number is issued.ALSO READ: FD rates for Senior Citizens: Banks that offer up to 9.1% interest on 3-year depositsNowadays, while creating new mutual fund folios, the fund house asks for KYC (know-your-client) details, contact details and nominations before allowing investments. If you fail to provide these or do not choose explicitly not to appoint a nominee, then the fund folios cannot be created. Be it a paper route or an online route, while creating a new folio, these inputs are must.But in earlier days it was not the case. Many times investors initiated investments without keying in the right inputs. For example, some investors used to ask distributors to write the distributors’ mobile numbers and email ids as the contact information. Over a period of time, such lapses can adversely affect the ability to transact. For example, the one-time password (OTP) sent for login into the portal or approving transactions may not reach the investor at all if the phone or email does not belong to the investor.
 
The news published on the date August 07, 2023 08:05 PM IST with headline  Individual investors repose faith in MFs despite tough markets in FY23: SEBI report is: 
 Exposure of corporate or institutional investors in mutual funds fell to 40.8 percent during FY23 from 43.5 percent in the preceding period. The share of individual investors, which include both retail and high net worth individuals (HNI), rose to 55 percent in the total assets of the mutual fund industry during financial year 2022-23, driven by continuous growth of systematic investment plan (SIP) accounts.These individual investors’ exposure in terms of percentage to total net assets of mutual funds stood at 52.7 percent during FY22, showed data provided in the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) latest annual report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe rise in the unitholding pattern of mutual funds by individual investors came at the time when markets remained largely flat during the year.Following two years of exceptional performance, Indian equity markets took a breather in 2022-23, with benchmark indices Nifty 50 and Sensex delivering negative of -0.48 percent and -1.76 percent, respectively, during the period.The SEBI annual report also showed that the exposure of corporate and institutional investors in mutual funds fell to 40.8 percent during FY23 from 43.5 percent in the preceding period.
 
The news published on the date August 07, 2023 06:36 PM IST with headline  342 MF schemes record negative returns in FY23, 6x increase YoY: SEBI report is: 
 Following two years of exceptional performance, the equity markets took a breather in 2022-23, with the benchmark indices Nifty 50 and Sensex inching lower. Last fiscal year, the mutual fund sector in India faced tough times as 342 schemes delivered negative returns to investors in the financial year 2022-23, a significant increase compared to 60 schemes in 2021-22.According to the Securities and Exchange Board of India's (SEBI) latest annual report, the number of schemes that provided returns of more than 5 percent declined from 898 in 2021-22 to 595 in 2022-23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe report, however, did not provide a breakdown between debt and equity schemes, nor did it reveal how the different categories of funds performed during the past two financial years.Dependent on market movementsThe data in the annual report suggested that the performance of Indian mutual fund schemes was reflective of the prevailing market mood.
 
The news published on the date August 07, 2023 01:52 PM IST with headline  When fund managers leave, should investors follow? is: 
 Mutual Funds The Rs 45 lakh crore Indian mutual fund sector has seen some personnel movements of late. On August 3, Union Mutual Fund announced that Harshad Patwardhan joined as chief investment officer (CIO). The position was lying vacant since Vinay Paharia left in November 2022 to join PGIM India Mutual Fund. Also, effective August 1, Rahul Goswami joined Franklin Templeton India AMC as CIO of fixed income. He moved from ICICI Prudential AMC. Also, when the schemes of IDBI MF were merged..
 
The news published on the date August 07, 2023 06:43 AM IST with headline  Top stocks that smart-beta funds rely on to max returns
 
The news published on the date August 04, 2023 03:06 PM IST with headline  PGIM India MF withdraws three facilities. What does it mean? is: 
 PGIM India Mutual Fund managed assets of Rs 22,518 crore as of the June quarter and 80 percent of its portfolio is in equities. PGIM India Asset Management has withdrawn three facilities offered to investors under its open-ended schemes from August 1. The facilities withdrawn are Anywhere Transact, Agelinked Investment Asset Allocation and Dynamic Advantage Asset Allocation. PGIM India Mutual Fund managed assets of Rs 22,518 crore as of the June quarter and 80 percent of its portfolio is in equities. What are the withdrawn facilities? According to the fund house’s website, the Anywhere Transact facility allows unitholders to transact anytime from anywhere by making a..
 
The news published on the date August 03, 2023 01:22 PM IST with headline  Union Mutual Fund appoints Harshad Patwardhan as chief investment officer is: 
 Harshad Patwardhan Union Asset Management Company, the 25th biggest mutual fund house in India, has appointed Harshad Patwardhan as its chief investment officer (CIO), the company announced on August 3.From 2006 to 2016, Patwardhan served as the CIO-Equities India at JPMorgan (JPM) Asset Management, where he also was a member of JPM's offshore India equity team. Subsequently, he spent five years as the CIO of Edelweiss AMC before transitioning to Girik Wealth Advisors, a portfolio management service, as the CIO.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs per Union AMC, Patwardhan, a B.Tech graduate from IIT Bombay, a PGDM from IIM Lucknow, and a CFA charter holder from the CFA Institute, brings with him over 28 years of extensive experience covering the entire gamut of research and portfolio management in Indian equities.Also read | Here are 10 sectors on which mutual funds have gone big"We are delighted to welcome Harshad Patwardhan to our leadership team," said G. Pradeepkumar, chief executive officer at Union AMC. "His deep-rooted understanding of capital markets and the investment process aligns perfectly with our mission ... we are confident that his leadership will play a key role in enhancing the fund's performance."
 
The news published on the date August 07, 2023 01:58 PM IST with headline  Here are 10 sectors on which mutual funds have gone big
 
The news published on the date August 03, 2023 08:38 AM IST with headline  Retiring in a few years? Don’t skip de-risking your retirement corpus for sequence-of-return risk is: 
 As you get closer to retirement, it is more prudent and recommended to reduce your equity exposure based on your risk appetite. Are you set to retire in a few years? Then there is one risk that you should not ignore. This is the sequence-of-return risk.What is the sequence-of-return risk?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhen you invest in equities, you may assume average annual returns of 10-12 percent. But let’s not forget that this is the average figure and it will have deviations. So good years might offer +25 percent or +40 percent, but bad ones could set you back by -8 percent or -15 percent. You just need to take a look at Nifty50 annual returns to see how equity returns can vary.This risk is generally considered in retirement goals and impacts the corpus differently depending on whether you are in the accumulation or distribution phase of retirement. However, if you are planning to have a large equity allocation in retirement and make withdrawals for regular pension-type income from that, then this risk can wreak havoc if you don’t manage it well.Let me use a very simple example to show you how.
 
The news published on the date August 03, 2023 07:23 AM IST with headline  Motilal Oswal AMC proposes merger of two schemes: What should you do? is: 
 Mutual Funds Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company (MOAMC) has proposed to merge Motilal Oswal Nifty G-sec May 2029 Index Fund (MO29) with Motilal Oswal 5-Year G-Sec Fund of Funds (MO5F). The fund house has sent a notice to the unitholders to that effect on July 28, 2023. Why the merger? MOAMC had launched MO29 in March 2023. This is a target maturity fund investing in government securities maturing before May 2029. As on June 30, 2023, the scheme manages assets worth Rs 11.33..
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2023 04:47 PM IST with headline  Should you tweak your gold investment strategy after the US ratings downgrade? is: 
 Central banks continue to buy gold every quarter. Except for selling by Turkey in the June quarter, central banks continue to hoard gold. Rating agency Fitch downgraded the credit rating of the US on Tuesday, giving a boost to global gold prices as investors flocked to the safe-haven asset amid economic uncertainty. After settling on a weaker note in the international markets on Tuesday, spot gold prices ruled higher by around 0.24 percent at $1,948 per ounce on August 2. In the domestic markets too, gold futures stayed up about 0.50 percent at Rs 59,650 per 10 grams. In the broader markets, Asian equity..
 
The news published on the date August 14, 2023 09:32 AM IST with headline  Spark Asia's Krishnan says these three sectors have come to life after 15 years is: 
 P Krishnan- MD Spark Asia Impact Managers Pvt Ltd India’s growth story is on a sustainable and stable track and that should persist for 4-5 years; 6.5 percent GDP growth looks achievable over a longer period and most analyses do not fully factor in the impact of steady and persistent growth, says Parameswara Iyer Krishnan. Better known as P Krishnan, he is the Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer of Spark Asia Impact Managers, a portfolio management service provider based in Chennai.India’s growth is led by the core sectors of the Indian economy and is more balanced than it was in the decade before Covid, says Krishnan. More importantly, the growth is being led by investments and not just by consumption, he added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKrishnan, who has worked as an investment manager in various Indian as well as foreign asset management outfits since 1990, expects strong, unprecedented capital flows to provide tailwinds. The inflation differential between India and the US is at the most favourable level for India in over 40 years, he added. This, coupled with a world hungry for growth levers, will see capital flows accelerate, said Krishnan.Edited excerpts from an interview with Moneycontrol follow:
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2023 08:08 AM IST with headline  Here’s what you need to be mindful of while choosing passive index funds for your MF portfolio is: 
 Pick existing passive funds from your chosen category that have sufficiently large AUMs from a few large fund houses. While I am a proponent of index funds to get large-cap exposure (read why here), it is also true that nowadays, passive investors are spoilt for choice as the number and variety of index funds in India have suddenly shot up.And given the increased interest, asset management companies (AMCs) also don’t want to be left behind in this passive wave. They would want to gather as much assets under management (AUM) as possible; otherwise, competitors (other fund houses) are there to mop it up.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut as an investor, how should you navigate this space? How should you pick index funds if there are so many confusing choices?In my view, there are just a few basic factors that you need to keep in mind while picking index funds for your portfolio.First step: Choosing the passive category
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2023 07:52 AM IST with headline  Arbitrage funds are back with a bang: what should you do? is: 
 Arbitrage funds allocate a minimum 65 percent to equity and equity-related instruments through spot-future arbitrage. Arbitrage funds, which have made a strong comeback after the changes to the taxation of debt mutual funds, may continue to deliver decent returns, say experts.These funds have seen net outflows of Rs 34,678 crore from July 2022 till March 2023. However, since April 1, these schemes have received net inflows of Rs 13,722 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBig tax pushArbitrage funds allocate a minimum 65 percent to equity and equity-related instruments through spot-future arbitrage.Put simply, these funds buy a stock in the cash market and simultaneously sell it in the futures market at a higher price to generate returns from the difference in the price of the security in the two markets.
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2023 07:44 AM IST with headline  Gilt Funds: Is it time to jump on to the roller coaster of returns? is: 
 The biggest advantage of these schemes is the absence of credit risk. Since government securities are backed by sovereign guarantees, there is little chance of default Gilt funds have been a roller-coaster ride for the last few years. These schemes scraped through with an average 2 percent returns each in calendar years 2021 and 2022, underperforming most other debt fund categories. However, they made a strong comeback in CY2023 with 4.28 percent returns, beating most other debt fund categories. As the interest rate cycle is nearing its peak, this could be a good time for long-term investors to enter these schemes. What are gilt funds? Gilt funds..
 
The news published on the date July 31, 2023 07:36 AM IST with headline  Why ESG is a crucial investment despite the sceptics is: 
 ESG Investing In the first six months of 2023, India experienced extreme weather events on 143 of the 181 days, as per data collated by the Centre for Science and Environment and Down To Earth. The data sourced from the Disaster Management Division of the India Meteorological Department and media reports noted that 651 lives were lost and 1 million hectares of crop area were affected. (image) It’s not as though floods and heatwaves didn’t occur before. But anyone following newspaper headlines..
 
The news published on the date July 31, 2023 07:07 AM IST with headline  Midcap darlings of conservative hybrid funds for long term growth
 
The news published on the date August 14, 2023 08:43 PM IST with headline  Where to invest Rs 10 lakh today? Avoid small caps; just stick to these 2 fund categories, says D Muthukrishnan is: 
 D Muthukrishnan, Chennai-based mutual fund distributor and CFP After Chennai-based mutual fund (MF) distributor D Muthukrishnan quit his job in 2006, he started his MF distribution outfit in January 2007. In about 16 years’ time, Muthukrishnan has become one of the biggest individual MF distributors in south India. This, he says, is despite the presence of direct plans. He stopped adding new clients after 2017. Muthukrishnan, who is also a Certified Financial Planner (CFP), stays away from small-cap funds and international funds. “In India, we have enough opportunities to invest,” he says. He largely invests his clients’ money in flexi-cap funds and aggressive-hybrid funds.Muthukrishnan, in conversation with Moneycontrol’s Maulik, elucidates why he thinks today is a good time to invest.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEquity markets are at a high. Is this a good time to invest? Are you bullish on India?I am always bullish on India. But not in the sense where people say that India will be a superpower and so on. That may or may not happen in the foreseeable future. How you define a superpower is also very dicey.
 
The news published on the date July 28, 2023 03:53 PM IST with headline  HDFC MF launches Transportation and Logistics Fund; should you invest? is: 
 In a country like India, the transportation and logistics theme could be highly cyclical. HDFC Asset Management Company (AMC) has launched a transportation and logistics fund that would invest in shares of companies from sectors such as Automotive, Airports & Airlines, Shipping & ports, E-commerce and Railways. HDFC Transportation and Logistics Fund (HTLF) is the fourth fund based on this theme. What’s on offer? The core of the portfolio (at least 80 percent) of HTLF will be invested in stocks that represent the Transportation and Logistics theme, including basic industries such as passenger cars and utility..
 
The news published on the date July 28, 2023 12:59 PM IST with headline  Finance Minister inaugurates bail-out facility for debt funds is: 
 Mutual Funds Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman launched the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund (CDMDF) on July 28, 2023,with the aim of advancing the corporate bond market.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe CDMDF will act as a backstop facility for specified debt funds during periods of stress in debt markets. Its function will involve purchasing investment-grade corporate debt securities when the debt markets face crises. This move is expected to bolster the confidence of mutual funds and investors in the corporate debt markets while also improving secondary market liquidity in corporate debt securities. SBI Funds Management will serve as the investment manager of the CDMDF.ALSO READ: Don’t panic when you get an income-tax notice. Here’s what you need to doThis lifeline offered to mutual funds will function as an alternative investment fund. It will be initially funded through contributions from specified debt-oriented mutual fund schemes and asset management companies of mutual funds. During times of market dislocation, specified mutual fund schemes can sell their investment-grade corporate debt securities to the CDMDF, in proportion to their contributions made to the fund at a mutual fund level. The details of such contributions by mutual fund schemes will be clearly outlined in the fact sheets and portfolio disclosures provided by the respective fund houses.
 
The news published on the date November 03, 2023 12:11 PM IST with headline  SEBI issues guidelines for emergency facility for debt funds in unfavourable market conditions is: 
 CDMDF is a corpus that will buy debt securities from mutual fund houses and give them cash to ensure that redemptions don’t stop. Nearly four months after it was announced, the capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) issued detailed guidelines on the much-awaited Corporate Debt Market Development Fund (CDMDF).This came a day before finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman formally launched the fund in Mumbai, which will work as a backstop facility for debt mutual funds by buying investment-grade corporate debt securities held by debt mutual fund schemes in times of market dislocation. Here’s what it means.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read | Proposed Securities Market Code to be a reality soon: SitharamanHow does CDMDF work?CDMDF is a corpus that will buy debt securities from mutual fund houses and give them cash to ensure that redemptions don’t stop. As per SEBI guidelines, it will be a closed-ended scheme with an initial tenure of 15 years, which can be extended later. In normal circumstances, it will invest only in short-duration government securities, treasury bills, tri-party repo on government securities and guaranteed corporate bond repo with maturity not exceeding seven days.
 
The news published on the date July 27, 2023 10:16 AM IST with headline  Here's where funds cut exposure in 2023: Check your portfolio
 
The news published on the date July 30, 2023 07:21 AM IST with headline  Mirae Asset MF designs latest ETF for traders with flexible investment tenure is: 
 ETF Mirae Asset Mutual Fund’s new fund offer (NFO), Mirae Asset Nifty 1D Rate Liquid ETF (MN1D), reopened on July 28. It is an addition to the list of exchange traded funds (ETF) that allow investors to park funds for a very short term – say a day to a fortnight. Investors, however, can decide to remain invested longer.Investors can choose between open-ended debt products such as overnight funds that can be used to park funds for a week or two; and liquid funds that can be used to park money for a month or so. However, these products - liquid ETF and open-ended debt products differ significantly at the operational level and from a usage point of view.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhere do they invest?Like any other ETF that tracks Nifty 1D Rate Index, MN1D will also invest in tri-party repo on government securities or treasury bills or repo and reverse repo. There is little credit risk and interest rate risk, making it a safe place to park money. Since the money gets redeployed every day, investors can expect only money market returns. This works mostly like an open-ended overnight fund; the returns may be similar.ALSO READ: I-T dept’s July 21 clarification on inoperative PAN offers little relief to NRIs
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2023 10:34 PM IST with headline  T+1 redemption and allotment for mutual fund units soon, says SEBI chief Madhabi Puri Buch is: 
 SEBI said that by strengthening the equity market eco-system, investors have benefited monetarily By the end of May 31, 2023, just five fresh mutual fund house applications lay pending for approval at the capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Two new fund house applications lay pending at its end, said SEBI chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch at an unscheduled press briefing held on July 24. The market regulator gave out a progress report on its operations; a section of which was devoted to how it has facilitated capital formation in the Indian economy in the past one year.Faster clearances and pendencyStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs on March 31, 2022, SEBI revealed that six fresh MF house applications were pending for more than six months, two more were pending for 3-6 months, and four fund house applications were pending for 1-3 months. SEBI revealed similar reducing timelines in the pendency and ageing of registration applications in the case of Alternate Investment Funds (AIF), Real-Estate Investment Trusts (REIT) and Infrastructure Trusts (InVITs). Explaining the rationale of the quick turnaround time between the time it receives an application to start a fund house or AIF or REIT or InVIT till the time the firm starts its operations, Buch said markets move fast and the opportunity to raise capital vanishes overnight. This, she said, is a very serious issue. “Therefore, we have started measuring our turnaround time, very carefully,” she said.Buch also stressed that the turnaround clock for SEBI is from the date it receives the application for the first time, and not from the time the applicant answers the final query raised by SEBI.Savings for investorsSEBI also said that by strengthening the equity market eco-system, investors have benefited monetarily. For instance, Buch said that by reducing the mutual find redemption timelines, SEBI’s back-of-the-envelope calculations show that investors have gained Rs 230 crore; going by an analysis of redemptions worth Rs 24 lakh crore (only in equity and hybrid schemes).
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2023 05:24 PM IST with headline  UTI Balanced Advantage Fund enters a crowded market. Should you invest? is: 
 Mutual Funds UTI Asset Management Company has announced the launch of a new fund offer of UTI Balanced Advantage Fund (UBAF). The NFO opened on July 21, 2023. Since the Nifty50 index has recently hit a new high, equity investors are wondering if the market has run up too fast and if this is a good time to invest.Balanced advantage funds (BAF), also known as dynamic asset allocation funds, are recommended by many experts to first time equity investors as a relatively low volatile vehicle to take exposure to stocks.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat is on offer?UBAF intends to provide long-term capital appreciation and income by investing in a dynamically managed portfolio of equity and debt instruments. An in-house proprietary asset allocation model driven by fundamentals and valuations will guide the allocation to stocks and bonds. Sachin Trivedi will manage the equity component of the scheme and Anurag Mittal, the fixed income investments. The scheme will be benchmarked against Nifty 50 Hybrid Composite Debt 50:50 Index.ALSO READ: Bajaj Finserv MF debuts in equity segment with flexicap fund: should you invest?
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2023 06:52 PM IST with headline  SEBI Press Briefing Highlights: Need more work on instantaneous settlement, not sure if it will be completed by FY24, says Buch
 
The news published on the date July 29, 2023 07:29 AM IST with headline  15 smallcap gems with major MF stakeholding
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2023 08:37 AM IST with headline  Bajaj Finserv MF debuts in equity segment with flexicap fund: should you invest? is: 
 Bajaj Finserv Mutual Fund is the 43rd entrant into India’s Rs 44 trillion mutual fund sector New entrant Bajaj Finserv Mutual Fund has made its foray into the equity segment with the launch of a flexicap fund. Its new fund offer (NFO) opens on July 24, and closes on August 7, 2023. The scheme is called Bajaj Finserv Flexi Cap Fund. Flexicap funds have the flexibility to change the allocation between largecaps, midcaps, and smallcaps, while ensuring that 65 percent of their allocations are in equity instruments. On June 29, Bajaj Finserv Asset Management Company (AMC) made its debut..
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2023 10:20 AM IST with headline  SEBI introduces 6 new mutual fund strategies under ESG theme is: 
 Back in 2020 when the coronavirus pandemic spread across the globe, a growing need was felt among investors to invest in ‘responsible’ companies. Expanding the scope of the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) thematic category, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has allowed asset management companies to launch funds under six new strategies.Currently, regulatory requirements permit mutual funds to launch only one scheme with ESG investing under the thematic category for equity schemes. However, in view of the increasing need for green financing, the capital markets regulator has now decided to permit the launch of multiple ESG schemes with different strategies by mutual funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdESG factor-based investing is catching up in all parts of the world, and Indian policymakers are also incentivizing sustainable investing.New strategiesAs per the SEBI circular dated July 20, any scheme under the ESG category can be launched with one of the following strategies – Exclusion, Integration, Best-in-class & Positive Screening, Impact investing, Sustainable objectives, and Transition or transition-related investments.
 
The news published on the date July 20, 2023 12:38 PM IST with headline  Personal Finance: Are developed market funds offering opportunities to Indian investors? is: 
 the tech-heavy Nasdaq has gained about 40 percent since the start of the year. After underperforming last year, international funds, especially those that are US-focussed, have put up a decent show since the start of the year, prompting investors to look at opportunities overseas. While the US markets have been the mainstay for Indian investors for overseas diversification over the past 10 years or so, some recently started to venture into the markets in Europe, China and Japan. Investment destinations for overseas investors are now getting split between developed markets such as the US, Europe..
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2023 01:10 PM IST with headline  Buy high, sell higher: Does momentum strategy work for Indian investors?
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2023 11:58 AM IST with headline  The variety in banking and financial sector mutual funds and which one to pick is: 
 banking sector funds DSP Mutual Fund announced the launch of open-ended exchange-traded funds: DSP Nifty Private Bank ETF and DSP Nifty PSU Bank ETF. The new fund offer of Mirae Asset Nifty Bank ETF closes on July 18. The new fund offer of Bandhan Financial Services Fund is open till July 24. Fund houses have launched new schemes focussed on the banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) sector. The plethora of choices may be confusing, but investors need to understand what they are buying and not focus on past returns.BFSI – a large sectorStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe BFSI sector houses some of the largest listed companies in India. It is the backbone of the Indian economy. With rising acceptance of financial products by various segments of the economy – broadly known as financialisation – companies in this sector have grown with increased digitalisation. Given the low penetration of financial services, the sector has a long growth pathway. The sector has three key segments – lenders including banks and non-banking financial companies, insurance companies, and financial services companies including brokerages, exchanges, asset management companies, depositories, and registrar & transfer agents. Each segment has different growth drivers and enjoys valuations accordingly. Public sector banks are seen as cyclical investments as they tend to do well when capital expenditure in the economy catches up, which is happening now. On the other hand, companies in the financial services and insurance sub-sectors are more long-term structural stories wherein shareholders bet on their wider presence among the masses amid economic growth and development.ALSO READ: Why monthly interest payout option in a bond may not be as good as it soundsProduct for each segment
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2023 10:15 AM IST with headline  Why systematic withdrawal plans in MF work best for retirees
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2023 09:19 AM IST with headline  Is there a bubble in smallcap stocks? Not yet, say fund managers is: 
 Despite the surge in assets under management (AUM) of smallcap schemes, most fund houses have been selective in expanding their exposure. Smallcap mutual funds have been among the most popular mutual fund (MF) schemes of late. In the last three years, these schemes got net inflows (more money came in than went out) of Rs 39,400 crore, while largecap flows have been at a trickle, at Rs 4,700 crore. In fact, midcap funds have also seen net buying worth Rs 36,700 crore.The inflows have picked up over the last 12 months, with smallcap funds receiving nearly Rs 30,000 crore since June 2022. This has raised concerns of a bubble in the smallcap space.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLimiting inflowsSmallcap is one category where liquidity is poor and impact costs are high compared to largecaps and midcaps. Therefore, the extra gush of inflows has forced some mutual funds (MF) to curtail fresh investment into these schemes.
 
The news published on the date July 14, 2023 11:44 AM IST with headline  Looking for value: Time to buy healthcare funds? is: 
 healthcare As the BSE Sensex crosses the 66,000 mark and market participants start talking about Nifty touching 20,000 soon, many investors are looking for value investing opportunities. Export-intensive sectors such as healthcare and information technology have not participated as much in the recent bull run in Indian stocks. For example, the mutual fund schemes investing in stocks in these sectors have given 18.28 percent and 12.62 percent respectively, in one year ended July 12, 2023, as per Value Research. Over..
 
The news published on the date July 14, 2023 07:01 AM IST with headline  Nifty 200 Momentum 30 Index rebalancing: 11 new mid-cap stocks that entered the index
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2023 03:12 PM IST with headline  Shridatta Bhandwaldar reveals Canara Robeco MF’s success mantra: Avoid cowboyish fund managers is: 
 Shridatta Bhandwaldar, Head of Equities at Canara Robeco MF. Every time a mutual fund house undergoes a churn in the fund management, the schemes’ performances take a hit. But there is one fund house that has bucked this trend. Not once, not twice, but almost every time in the past. This fund house is the Canara Robeco Asset Management Co Ltd, India’s 16th largest fund house with assets of around Rs 70,800 crore. In fact, its schemes have been among the top-performing funds in India. Three of its equity..
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2023 05:00 PM IST with headline  International MF schemes have delayed declaring net asset values. Here’s why is: 
 At Moneycontrol, we suggest investing in international funds as part of your asset allocation Indian mutual fund houses have opened their doors once again, albeit selectively, to investments in their overseas funds. However, investors in such funds have to deal with a minor complexity — it takes a bit longer for international funds to get their net asset values (NAV).Recently mutual fund houses such as PGIM India and SBI allowed investors to subscribe to units of their schemes investing overseas. Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual fund also realigned its international equity offerings by merging two schemes. Investor interest in schemes investing overseas is going up in certain pockets.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn fact, some investors have also been getting their account statements on email a few hours later and in some cases even a day later. What has changed?NAV declaration timelinesMutual Fund (MF) schemes must disclose their daily NAVs by 11 pm Indian time. Fund houses are supposed to value all the securities held in their portfolios and compute the NAV for that day. The latest price at which each security was traded is to be considered. But this has led to a practical difficulty for schemes investing overseas.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2023 07:12 AM IST with headline  Smallcaps today, multibaggers tomorrow: Unique stocks that make it to MF hotlists
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2023 04:13 PM IST with headline  Kotak Quant Fund NFO: Only for select investors is: 
 How do you stand a chance to earn more returns with as little volatility as possible? Kotak Quant Fund (KQF), the new scheme by Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Co Ltd (India’s fifth largest fund house with assets over Rs 2.97 lakh crore), aims to do something like that. KQF, its first quantitative fund, launches on July 12.What does the fund do?At the heart of it, KQF by Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund is a thematic equity fund. Using the combined expertise of human fund managers as well as computer programs, it aims to pick stocks that it thinks would do well in rising markets as well as protect the downside in volatile markets.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFrom its starting point of 800-1,000 stocks, KQF will narrow down the basket —through human intervention — to close to 150-200 stocks by weeding out stocks based on low liquidity, weak financials and bad governance. From here on, the fund house’s algorithm will pick around 35-50 stocks from this shortlisted universe, based on momentum and volatility factors. In simple words, stocks that demonstrate high growth and low volatility.What works?Quant funds have a more rigorous approach to stock picking than smart-beta passive funds. Like a typical quant fund, KQF will shortlist the universe of stocks it would invest in. This border will be drawn manually. The algorithms will finally choose and pick stocks that the fund will buy. To this extent, the fund has an active screening process.Also read: Want to know the best mutual funds to invest in? Check out the MC30 basket
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2023 03:55 PM IST with headline  Samco MF garners Rs 409 crore via Active Momentum Fund NFO, restricts fresh investments is: 
 As per AMFI data for June month, out of the Rs 8,637 crore net inflows into equity mutual funds, 85 percent came into only midcap and smallcap fund segments. Asset management company Samco Mutual Fund has collected Rs 409 crore during the new fund offer (NFO) period of its Active Momentum Fund with over 25,000 investors subscribing to the scheme.The fund house has, meanwhile, restricted fresh investments in the form of lump sum and systematic investment plans (SIPs) until further notice.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe NFO for India’s first active momentum fund -- Samco Active Momentum Fund -- was open from June 15 to June 29.The quantum of funds collected by the fund house via the scheme is significant as it had average assets under management (AUM) of Rs 815 crore for the June quarter. The AMC is the 37th biggest fund house in the 43-member Indian mutual fund industry.Notably, Samco MF has four schemes available in the market with flexi-cap being the biggest fund with an AUM of Rs 746 crore as of June end.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2023 01:23 PM IST with headline  Gilt funds regain glitter with Rs 396-crore inflow from investors is: 
 Mutual fund investors bought into the units of gilt funds in June 2023 after a short break in May. Mutual fund investors bought into the units of gilt funds in June 2023 after a short break in May. Compared with the outflow of Rs 127 crore in May 2023, gilt funds saw net inflows of Rs 396 crore in June 2023. As investors are seen coming back to gilt funds, does it make sense to invest in gilt funds at this juncture?Yields become more attractiveStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe 10-year benchmark bond yield made an intermediate high of 7.42 percent on February 28, 2023, and then started moving down as many investors preferred to invest in long-term gilts through mutual funds to avail indexation benefit. The yield on the benchmark 10-year government security bounced to 7.16 percent on July 10 after trading below the psychologically important mark of 7 percent for a brief period last month. After the temporary propped up demand for long-term gilts cooled off, the yields bounced back.ALSO READ: Millennials comprise largest segment of active users on P2P platforms
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2023 06:49 AM IST with headline  Equity inflows more than double to Rs 8,637 crore, smallcap fund flows at all-time high is: 
 BSE Sensex has risen by around 7 percent since the start of the year, while the index has gained 0.7 percent in June this year. Inflows into open-ended equity mutual funds (MFs) jumped 167 percent to Rs 8,637 crore in June driven by record net investments in smallcap funds, the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) data has shown.This is the 28th straight month when equity inflows have remained positive.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe inflows into equity funds have come on the back of the Indian market making a decent recovery from March onwards, with the Sensex gaining around 7 percent. The index moved 0.7 percent higher in June.However, investments via systematic investment plans (SIPs) inched lower to Rs 14,734 crore in June. Inflows via SIPs had hit a fresh record high of Rs 14,749 crore in May.N. S. Venkatesh, Chief Executive Officer, AMFI, said, "The impressive increase of 29 percent in retail AUM on an annualized basis and 25 percent in average assets under management (AAUM) indicates a positive trend of net retail inflows. It is particularly encouraging to see money flowing into equity schemes, with small-cap inflows at an all-time high.”
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2023 08:57 AM IST with headline  Final approval for mutual fund expected in 4-8 weeks: Zerodha CEO Nithin Kamath is: 
 The brokerage house has formed a joint venture (JV) with wealth management firm smallcase for its mutual fund foray. Stock brokerage firm Zerodha, which aims to launch India’s first passive-only asset management company (AMC), expects to get final approval from the capital markets regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), within next four to eight weeks, said its Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Nithin Kamath. Talking on the sidelines of the inaugural Moneycontrol Startup Conclave, Kamath said he hopes to launch funds within three months of getting the final approval. In September 2021, Zerodha had received in-principle approval..
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2023 07:06 AM IST with headline  13 midcap stocks that are most shunned by active mutual fund managers
 
The news published on the date July 07, 2023 09:21 PM IST with headline  SEBI issues framework for PE funds as sponsors and self-sponsored AMCs is: 
 Currently, mutual fund houses must have a sponsor and must be a business in financial services such as banking, stock broking, housing finance company and so on. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has mandated that among the pooled investment vehicles, only private equity funds (PEs) can sponsor a mutual fund house, while the entities should have a minimum of five years of experience.To facilitate the fresh flow of capital into the industry, fostering innovation, encouraging competition, providing ease of consolidation and easing exit for existing sponsors, the capital markets regulator in March allowed PEs to sponsor mutual fund schemes and also permitted the set-up of self-sponsored asset management companies (AMCs).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCurrently, mutual fund houses must have a sponsor and must be a business in financial services such as banking, stock broking, housing finance company and so on.SEBI had notified the rules for the new set-up of sponsors of a Mutual Fund earlier in June. The regulator has now issued a regulatory framework via a circular dated July 7.Key rules for sponsor PEs
 
The news published on the date July 07, 2023 07:09 PM IST with headline  SEBI puts onus on trustees to ensure fairness of fees, expenses charged by fund houses is: 
 As per the regulatory framework of SEBI, the Trustees hold the property of the mutual fund in trust for the benefit of the unitholders. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has asked trustees of asset management companies (AMCs) to ensure fairness of the fees and expenses charged to the unitholders. Trustees would also be required to review the performance of AMCs in their schemes versus performance of peers or the benchmarks.To address conflicts between the interests of unitholders and those of stakeholders in asset management companies (AMCs), the capital markets regulator has come out with the roles and responsibilities of trustees and board of directors of Asset Management Companies (AMCs) of Mutual Funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis circular would come into force with effect from January 1, 2024.As per the regulatory framework of SEBI, the Trustees hold the property of the mutual fund in trust for the benefit of the unitholders and their primary role is to ensure that AMCs appointed by them act in the best interests of the unitholders.Accordingly, any conflict between the interests of the unitholder and that of AMCs’ stakeholders needs to be addressed by the Trustees.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2023 04:17 PM IST with headline  Motilal Oswal Nifty Microcap 250 Index Fund garners Rs 120 crore during NFO period is: 
 Motilal Oswal Nifty Microcap 250 Index, which is India’s first passive scheme specifically focussed on this market-cap category, has collected more than Rs 120 crore during its new fund offer (NFO) period from more than 26,000 investors.The NFO period of the scheme commenced on June 15 and closed on June 29. The fund managers to the scheme are Swapnil Mayekar and Rakesh Shetty (for debt component).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMotilal Oswal Nifty Microcap 250 Index Fund, which mimics the Nifty Microcap 250 Index, is designed to measure the performance of the top 250 companies, excluding those already present in the Nifty 500 constituents.Also read | Majority of insurance-buyers find products & processes to be complex: Policybazaar studyAccording to the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) classification, the top 100 listed companies constitute largecaps, those ranked 101-250 are midcaps and those in the 251-500 spots are smallcaps. The rest, around 4,000 to 5,000, are microcaps.
 
The news published on the date July 07, 2023 12:27 AM IST with headline  Nippon India Mutual Fund limits inflows into smallcap fund is: 
 Mutual Funds Nippon India Life Asset Management has announced that it will not accept lump sum investments into Nippon India Small Cap Fund (NISC) from July 7. The restriction will also apply to switch in transactions.The fund house has further made it clear that fresh registrations through systematic investment plan (SIP) without initial investment or systematic transfer plan (STP) or such other special product shall continue with a limit of Rs 5 lakh per day per PAN. Existing SIP and STP will not be affected due to this announcement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: SBI Mutual Fund to accept investments in SBI International Access–US Equity FOF“The limit on subscription of units of the scheme is being proposed to facilitate gradual deployment of corpus in order to align with the nature of small cap investing. The step is warranted considering the recent sharp rally in the small cap space and increased investor participation through high ticket investments which would be in the best interest of existing unit holders and appropriate for incremental investments,” said the addendum released by the fund house.NISC is the largest small cap fund in the mutual fund industry with assets under management of Rs 31,945 crore. The fund has given 39.77 percent returns in last one year compared with 30.8 percent average returns given by the small cap category, as per Value Research. NISC is managed by Samir Rachh and Tejas Sheth.
 
The news published on the date July 07, 2023 12:43 PM IST with headline  Potential Risk Class Matrix: How This Can Help You Read The ‘Risk Class’ Of Your Debt Mutual Fund | Explained
 
The news published on the date July 06, 2023 10:55 AM IST with headline  SBI Mutual Fund to accept investments in SBI International Access–US Equity FOF is: 
 SBIUS manages assets worth Rs 788 crore and has given 15.98 percent returns in one year, as of July 4. SBI Mutual Fund, the largest mutual fund house in India, has announced that it will accept inflows in the SBI International Access – US Equity FOF (SBIUS). On July 3, the scheme started accepting money in lumpsum, switch in, systematic investment plans (SIP), systematic transfer plans (STP) as well as transfer of IDCW.SBIUS is an open-ended fund of funds scheme investing in mutual fund scheme or ETFs that invest in US markets. The scheme has invested in the units of Amundi Funds US Pioneer Fund. SBIUS manages assets worth Rs 788 crore and has given 15.98 percent returns in one year, as of July 4. International funds, on an average, have given 13.89 percent returns in the same period, according to per Value Research.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMutual Fund houses were told to stop accepting money in international schemes in February 2022, when the limit set for the mutual fund industry to invest overseas was breached. Also read | Win for the unitholder is a win for the shareholder: Navneet Munot of HDFC MFVolatile markets in CY2022 led to some redemptions in international schemes and there is a scope to accept money.
 
The news published on the date July 06, 2023 02:17 PM IST with headline  AMFI reclassification: Smallcap stocks that got upgraded to midcaps. Do you own them?
 
The news published on the date July 06, 2023 01:34 PM IST with headline  Win for the unitholder is a win for the shareholder: Navneet Munot of HDFC MF is: 
 Navneet Munot, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of HDFC AMC Note to readers: Mutual funds’ chief executive officers are of broadly two types. One group typically rises from fund management. The second group rises from sales and marketing background. Who is better at heading a mutual fund house? The jury is still out. In this series of CEO profiles, we look at the successful fund managers who went on to head fund houses, later in their careers.Navneet Munot’s career spanning close to 30 years is spread over just three firms! Aside from a small one-year stint at Morgan Stanley Investment Management from December 2007 to December 2008. Clearly, Munot doesn’t just believe in long-term investing, he also believes in sticking around with his employers for the long-term.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMunot, who now heads HDFC Asset Management Co Ltd (India’s third-largest mutual fund house with assets worth Rs 4.6 trillion), started his career at the Aditya Birla Group in February 1994. Born and brought up in a small town called Beawar, 60 km south of Ajmer, Rajasthan, Munot moved to Mumbai after completing his chartered accountancy with merit.He joined the Birla Growth Fund (not to be confused with a mutual fund), the holding company of the Aditya Birla Group. The group was just entering the financial services business at the time and set up a mutual fund in partnership with Capital International in the same year.Later, the group also launched an insurance, broking and distribution business, this time in partnership with Sun Life of Canada. Eventually, Sun Life replaced the Capital group in Birla’s mutual fund venture as well.
 
The news published on the date July 06, 2023 06:45 AM IST with headline  Which is the best day of the month to invest in an SIP? is: 
 SIP As systematic investment plans (SIP) emerge as an attractive vehicle to invest in equity for the long term, fund houses are trying to make the proposition more friendly.JM Financial Mutual Fund recently unveiled an ‘any day’ facility for monthly SIP schemes. It also allowed daily SIP and STP (systematic transfer plan) facilities on any day. Earlier, the fund house used to offer a monthly SIP facility for any day from the 1st to 28th. Some fund houses offer flexibility in choosing SIP dates.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdICICI Prudential Mutual Fund has reduced the daily SIP amount to as low as Rs 20 for select equity funds to make them accessible to more investors on digital platforms. While these moves may take SIPs to more homes, the moot point is that such investments need to be regular and for a longer period.SIPs attract investorsMany mutual fund investors prefer to stagger their investments. The ‘invest as you earn’ method is convenient for most people. It also reduces the risk of timing the market. Over a long period of time, investors benefit from rupee-cost averaging. No wonder the amount of money deployed through SIPs is rising continuously. Investors put in Rs 14,749 crore through SIPs in mutual funds in May 2023, compared with Rs 12,286 crore in May 2022.
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2023 06:00 PM IST with headline  Filing ITR for crypto gains? Here’s what you need to know | Simply Save is: 
 This year would be the first time when crypto investors would be filing taxes under the new taxation regime, for gains made in financial year 2022-23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe taxation framework for crypto assets, or virtual digital assets, was introduced by the government last year.In the Union Budget for the financial year 2023, the government said that gains arising out of crypto assets would be taxed at 30 percent irrespective of the individual’s income tax slab rate. In addition, a 1 percent tax deducted at source (TDS) was made applicable on each transfer of such assets.In today’s Simply Save Podcast, Indy Sarker, co-founder of TaxCryp, a crypto tax solution company, joins us to talk about cryptocurrency taxation. He tells us how crypto gains are taxed, the difference between taxation norms for investors and professionals, tax aspects for airdrops and non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and what investors should keep in mind when filing Income Tax Returns (ITR) form this year.
 
The news published on the date July 06, 2023 05:09 PM IST with headline  Why should investors consider this MF distributor amid regulatory headwinds? is: 
 aa Highlights Prudent will be impacted by potential regulatory changes Strong AUM growth, healthy net inflows led by SIP AUM growth led by organic as well as inorganic growth Product mix improves further in favour of equity assets Valuation reasonable considering superior return ratiosThe stock of Prudent Corporate Advisory Services (CMP: Rs 997; Mcap: Rs 4,129 crore) had a great run on bourses since its listing in May 2022. The mutual fund distributor’s stock has doubled in the last one year and is up 58..
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2023 12:43 PM IST with headline  Mankind, TVS, IDBI becomes largecaps; Nykaa, JSW Energy, Page Industries down to midcap bracket is: 
 markets Nuvama Quantitative and Alternative Research said in a recent note that the market categorisation review by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) is in-line with its predictions. The list will be valid from August 2023 to January 2024.Jindal Steel & Power, Punjab National Bank, IDBI Bank, Canara Bank, TVS Motor Co, Tube Investments and Mankind Pharma have entered into the largecap category from midcap. Mankind Pharma has surged over 57 percent from its issue price of Rs 1080 a share. TVS Motors climbed 61 percent, IDBI Bank advanced 91 percent while Canara Bank and Tube Investments rose over 71 percent each in the last one year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPunjab & Sind Bank, Carborundum Universal Ltd, Bank of Maharashtra, Fertilisers & Chemicals Travancore Ltd, Jindal Stainless, Rail Vikas Nigam, New India Assurance, Bharat Dynamics and IIFL Finance are the new entrants from smallcap segment to midcap segment.Meanwhile, FSN E Commerce, JSW Energy, Tata Elxsi, Indus Towers, Page Industries, Macrotech Developers and Info Edge have moved to midcap from largecap. FSN E-Commerce stock has fallen nearly 52 percent in the last one year while Page Industries declined 31 percent since October 2022.Tata Elxsi has lost around 31 percent since August last year while Indus Tower erased around 29 percent since July 2022.The market capitalisation cutoff for largecap stocks is set at Rs 497 billion, while the cutoff for midcap stocks is set at Rs 174 billion. In terms of total market capitalisation, largecap stocks (top 100) account for 68.3 percent, compared to 69.4 percent in the previous review. Midcap stocks (101-250) account for 16.6 percent, up from 16 percent in the previous review. Small-cap stocks (251 and beyond) account for 15.1 percent, up from 14.6 percent in the previous review, the report said.
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2023 04:45 PM IST with headline  Edelweiss MF to merge ETF-Nifty Bank with Nifty Largemidcap 250 Index Fund; focus on index funds is: 
 Mutual Funds Edelweiss Mutual Fund has announced the merger of two of its passively managed schemes. Edelweiss ETF-Nifty Bank (ENB) will merge with Edelweiss Nifty Largemidcap 250 Index Fund (ELM250), the fund house wrote to its unitholders. The record date for the merger is August 7, 2023.ENB is an open-ended scheme tracking Nifty Bank Index and ELM250 is an open-ended equity scheme replicating Nifty LargeMidcap 250 Index managing assets worth Rs 2 crore and Rs 50 crore, respectively as on May 31, 2023. While the former has given 35 percent returns the latter has given 26.4 percent returns in one year ended July 3, 2023, as per Value Research.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: Government flip flop on TCS confounds credit card holders“Considering the AUM of ENB and given very minimal trading volumes on the exchange it is prudent to merge ENB with ELM250 to provide more liquidity to investors in ENB,” the fund house said in a letter to unitholders explaining the rationale behind the merger.Focus on index funds
 
The news published on the date July 13, 2023 11:36 AM IST with headline  How has Nippon India Small Cap fund compensated risks with handsome returns?
 
The news published on the date July 06, 2023 11:24 AM IST with headline  Bond market teaches you why even a single basis point matters a lot: A Balasubramanian is: 
 A Balasubramanian, Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund. Note to readers: Mutual funds’ chief executive officers are of broadly two types. One group typically rises from fund management. The second group rises from sales and marketing background. Who is better at heading a mutual fund house? The jury is still out. In this series of CEO profiles, we look at the successful fund managers who went on to head fund houses, later in their careers.Mutual fund industry veteran A Balasubramanian could have been an agriculturist, banker, or software engineer, but as fate would have it, this village boy became head of one of India’s biggest asset management companies (AMCs).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn his career spanning more than 30 years in the asset management sector, Balasubramanian has been a trader, dealer, portfolio manager, and chief investment officer (CIO). He has also been on both sides of the market – fixed income and equity.Balasubramanian is today the Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, which has assets under management (AUM) of around Rs 3 trillion. Here is his life journey.From Melattur to Mumbai
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2023 12:45 PM IST with headline  Smart investing: When exactly should you invest in a Focused Fund scheme? is: 
 Many investors look at focused funds as alternatives to PMS-style concentrated portfolio investing. The focused mutual fund scheme category, as the name suggests, has been mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to manage a concentrated portfolio consisting of a small number of stocks. A maximum of 30 stocks is allowed in a focused fund. This is much lower than that of categories like Flexicap, Largecap and Midcap Funds, which can have around 50-70 stocks.How do Focused funds stand up to Flexicap funds?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, there are no restrictions on where the fund can invest (like in flexicap funds). Also, focused funds can allocate as much as they want to different market capitalisations and sectors. So, in essence, focused funds are like flexicap funds, but with a far more concentrated portfolio of a lesser number of stocks.Many investors look at focused funds as alternatives to PMS-style concentrated portfolio investing, given the low minimum investment requirement of focused funds compared to the Rs 50 lakh required for entry into PMS. But that is not a correct comparison. PMS is a different animal altogether in the way it is run by PMS managers. A better comparison would be the flexicap fund category.The rationale for focused funds is their potential to achieve better returns from investing in a concentrated portfolio by taking comparatively larger positions in high-conviction bets.
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2023 12:48 PM IST with headline  Microcaps can be multibaggers, but it’s a ‘chakravyuh’. Here’s a plan is: 
 According to ICICI Securities’ recent report the micro-cap space is the last bastion of relatively cheap valuations in a rising bull market environment. With markets hitting fresh all-time highs, micro-cap stocks have come into the limelight, with experts saying this segment offers relatively cheap valuations versus larger caps. India’s first passive scheme offering exposure to micro-cap stocks was recently launched by Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund, with the rationale that they have distinct characteristics that make them good investment prospects, but with a much higher risk. Per the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) classification, the top 100 listed companies constitute large-caps, those ranked..
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2023 08:42 AM IST with headline  MC Explains: How to get your capital gains statement for MF investments is: 
 CAPITAL GAINS COMPUTATION As the deadline for filing income tax returns nears, many individuals run around to get all relevant inputs pertaining to their income. One of these is the capital gains booked the previous financial year. With more and more people investing in mutual funds (MF), the capital gains computation is a growing requirement.Most mutual funds houses and brokers offer a ready-made solution. However, some brokers do not offer one. Also, many individuals change their brokers over a period of time and all details are not available under one login. Plus, there are those who invest in direct schemes of MFs. For all such cases, registrar and transfer agents (RTA) such as KFin and CAMS offer an online tool to compute capital gains.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhere do you get it?The Kfin tool can be accessed here.The CAMS resource is available here
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2023 06:55 AM IST with headline  How HDFC and HDFC bank multiplied the wealth of MF investors is: 
 HDFC Bank and HDFC were the most favourite stocks of many actively managed schemes The chart shows how both HDFC Bank and HDFC became the mutual funds’ favourite over the last 15 years.The merger of India's largest private sector bank HDFC Bank, and the home loan major, Housing Development Finance Corporation, has created a behemoth in the Indian banking industry, second only to the State Bank of India in terms of assets. As per the Moneycontrol research, the loan book or advances of the merged entity is expected to increase by 38.77 percent to Rs 22.21 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHDFC and HDFC Bank have been part of the top 10 holdings of many equity-oriented mutual fund schemes which helped multiply unitholders’ wealth over the years. Believing in the long-term growth story of these companies, many fund managers continued holding these stocks in their portfolios, irrespective of the market gyrations. As per the latest data, the overall mutual fund industry has held about Rs 1,17,456 crore of the investment in HDFC Bank while Rs 61,805 crore in HDFC Ltd.Largecap multibaggersBoth HDFC bank and HDFC multiplied the investors’ money. As of June 30, 2023, HDFC Bank and HDFC shares rewarded the investors with returns of 1,589 percent and 618 percent respectively over the last 15 years.
 
The news published on the date June 30, 2023 04:18 PM IST with headline  PGIM India MF allows fresh SIPs in international schemes is: 
 Fund houses stopped accepting flows into their international schemes in February 2022 as the limit set for the mutual fund industry to invest overseas was breached. PGIM Mutual Fund has decided to allow investments in its schemes investing overseas through systematic investment plans (SIP) and systematic transfer plans (STP) along with lumpsum investments from July 3, 2023.PGIM India Global Equity Opportunities Fund, PGIM India Emerging Markets Equity Fund, PGIM India Global Select Real Estate Securities Fund of Fund are the three schemes of the fund house which will accept subscriptions going forward.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLimits remain but headroom expandsFund houses stopped accepting flows into their international schemes in February 2022 as the limit set for the mutual fund industry to invest overseas was breached. But later, the regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) permitted fund houses to accept money in their schemes investing overseas up to the headroom available without breaching the overseas investment limits as of February 1, 2022, at the mutual fund level.This means if they were to sell their existing securities, that money can be reinvested in buying fresh shares or additional shares of existing holdings. That allowed many including PGIM MF open doors for fresh investments.
 
The news published on the date June 30, 2023 08:02 AM IST with headline  Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual Fund to merge schemes investing overseas is: 
 In a notice sent to the unitholders of these schemes the fund house said that the merger will be effective from the close of business hours on July 28, 2023. Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual Fund has announced that it will merge Aditya Birla Sun Life International Equity Fund – Plan B (ABSB) and Aditya Birla Sun Life Commodity Equities Fund – Global Agri Plan (ABSC) into Aditya Birla Sun Life International Equity Fund – Plan A (ABSA).In a notice sent to the unitholders of these schemes the fund house said that the merger will be effective from the close of business hours on July 28, 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: Choose wisely to avoid travel insurance fraudsABSB is an equity scheme that manages assets worth Rs 91 crore in stocks listed on Indian as well as overseas bourses and has given 18.44 percent returns in three years. ABSA has invested Rs 105 crore in stocks listed overseas and has given 9.33 percent returns over the same period. ABSC has assets worth Rs 13 crore invested in shares of companies that are a part of the agriculture sector and listed across the globe and has given 17.61 percent returns over three years.Over the three years ended June 27, 2023, international equity funds, on an average, have given 8.71 percent returns, as per Value Research.
 
The news published on the date June 29, 2023 07:38 PM IST with headline  Bajaj Finserv Mutual Fund makes a quiet debut, with two debt funds is: 
 The launch of fixed-income products by Bajaj Finserv AMC is the start of building its product suite. The company is set to launch equity and hybrid products soon. Bajaj Finserv, India’s 43rd asset management company (AMC) and its fund house, has decided to debut with two debt funds -- a Liquid and an Overnight fund. These are two of the first seven schemes for which it had filed with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi).Apart from these debt funds, Bajaj Finserv AMC has approvals to launch a money market fund, and three equity-oriented schemes -- a balanced advantage fund, large- and mid-cap fund and a flexi-cap fund – as well as an arbitrage fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe launch of fixed-income products by Bajaj Finserv AMC is the start of building its product suite. The company is set to launch equity and hybrid products soon.“Mutual funds, as an industry, have been able to reach 3.75 crore unique investors. With new entrants, there is an opportunity to increase the reach in a broader market and enhance awareness,” said Harshad Chetanwala, co-founder of MyWealthGrowth.What is on offer
 
The news published on the date June 29, 2023 01:35 PM IST with headline  Want to build an emergency corpus? These debt funds come with a good track record
 
The news published on the date June 29, 2023 07:12 AM IST with headline  Sebi defers decision on overhaul in total expense ratio for mutual funds is: 
 SEBI chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch says that armed with more data, SEBI will now come out with a second consultation paper on TER soon Capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has deferred its decision to rationalise the total expense ratio (TER), or the expenses that mutual fund (MF) schemes can charge their investors.The Sebi chairperson said that the regulator will soon come up with a second consultation paper around rationalising the TER.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSebi was expected to redefine the TER by bringing many charges- that sit outside the TER at the moment- within the limits of the TER. But in its Board meeting held on June 28, Sebi didn't take any decision on this.Explaining the Board's decision to defer its decision, Sebi chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch explained that it got feedback from the MF industry and more granular data that demostarted that economies of scale has in fact been achieved to quite an extent.On May 18, Sebi had brought out a consultation paper asking for public’s opinion on some key proposals that Sebi had put forth to make TER more transparent. The aim of this exercise, which SEBI had announced it had started work on in December 2022, was to bring economies of scale. The consultation paper of May 18 had confirmed an exclusive by Moneycontrol on January 28 that gave a glimpse of Sebi’s plans to cut down expense ratios.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2023 06:49 PM IST with headline  SEBI notifies rules on roles, responsibilities of Trustees and Board of AMCs is: 
 The regulator has said that a sponsor should have a sound track record and general reputation of fairness and integrity in all business transactions. Capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has notified rules aimed at bringing clarity on the roles and responsibilities of Trustees and Boards of Asset Management Companies of Mutual Funds with a focus on unitholder protection through a gazette notification.The SEBI in its board meeting on March 29 had approved the amendments to provide identification of specific areas as the core responsibilities of Trustees, which shall require independent evaluation and due diligence by Trustees.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurther, areas of potential conflict of interest between the shareholders of the AMC and unitholders of its schemes were also highlighted.Also read | How much life insurance do you need?The amendments to the mutual fund regulations explicitly made the Board of AMC responsible for protecting unitholders’ interests, in addition to AMC stakeholders’ interests and will provide for the constitution of a Unitholder Protection Committee by the Board of the AMC with a focus on unitholders’ protection.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2023 10:30 PM IST with headline  SEBI Board Meeting Highlights: IPO listing time slashed, additional disclosures for FPIs, norms tweaked for sponsors in REITs & INVITs
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2023 12:51 PM IST with headline  Mutual Fund Review: Quant MF launches healthcare fund; should you invest? is: 
 Quant Healthcare Fund (QHF) opened for subscription on June 27 and will close on July 11 Expanding its sectoral offerings, Quant Mutual Fund, which has assets under management (AUM) of around Rs 18,500 crore, has launched a healthcare fund focusing on life sciences, insurance and wellness companies.Quant Healthcare Fund (QHF) opened for subscription on June 27 and will close on July 11. This is the second sectoral fund by the fund house within a week, after the Quant BFSI Fund that was launched on June 20.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to Sandeep Tandon, founder and chief investment officer of Quant MF, earlier this year they had decided to launch multiple funds based on their in-house business cycle analytics.Also Read: 85% of health insurance reimbursement claims are for less than Rs 1 lakh: SecureNow study“This is the best time to launch sectoral or themed products funds. The markets may correct any time, and post correction the first sector that is expected to emerge is BFSI. After that healthcare will emerge, and then technology and manufacturing will emerge. By August-September, we plan to launch four-five sectoral themes,” Tandon said.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2023 01:17 PM IST with headline  Smallcap MFs outshine: Top schemes surge up to 12 times in 10 years
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2023 05:38 PM IST with headline  Will credit risk debt funds make a comeback? is: 
 Debt Funds and Debt Credit Quality The credit quality index, a gauge of the overall quality of the debt in the country, is on the rise. Debt market experts see this as implying that corporates are better placed to service their debt obligations. If you invest in debt funds, then this is relevant for you.Better fundamentalsStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe CareEdge Debt Quality Index (CDQI) has been on an upward journey since November 2021. The index was at 93.54 points in May 2023 compared with 91.41 points in November 2021. This uptrend was seen after a period of consolidation that started in March 2020.ALSO READ: LIC launches Dhan Vriddhi, a single premium guaranteed endowment policyMilind Gadkari, Senior Director, Care Ratings says, “Rising issuance of high-quality bonds and relatively more upgrades than downgrades have led to sustained increase in the CDQI. The good part is that upgrades have been seen across sectors and rating segments.”
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2023 08:19 PM IST with headline  Debt is his first choice: Rajiv Shastri’s journey from broker to CEO of a mutual fund is: 
 Rajiv Shastri, 51, Chief Executive Officer of NJ Mutual Fund has seen the rise of the Indian mutual fund industry closely. Note to readers: Mutual funds’ chief executive officers are of broadly two types. One group typically rises from fund management. The second group rises from sales and marketing background. Who is better at heading a mutual fund house? The jury is still out. In this series of CEO profiles, we look at the successful fund managers who went on to head fund houses, later in their careers.Rajiv Shastri, Chief Executive Officer, NJ Mutual Fund, one of India’s youngest fund houses with assets worth Rs 4,300 crore, has moved from larger fund houses to smaller and smaller ones.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut his career trajectory has gone up in the process. It is not hard to see that Shastri, 51, has seen the rise of the Indian mutual fund (MF) industry closely.Shastri says many chief executives of MF houses have a fixed-income background. Nilesh Shah of Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund and Trust MF’s Sandeep Bagla are two examples.A long-winding road
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2023 10:11 AM IST with headline  Mid-Small Cap outperformance to continue amid strong inflow: Jefferies is: 
 Markets Jefferies India in its recent report said that the ongoing trend of mid-cap and small-cap stocks outperforming large-cap and multicap stocks is expected to continue, thanks to strong inflows into this segment.According to data from AMFI, small-cap and mid-cap focused mutual funds have witnessed net inflows of Rs 209 billion year-to-date (CYTD), which is 1.7 times higher than the inflows into large and multicap equity funds. Specifically, inflows into small-cap funds have increased by 53% compared to the same period last year, while mid-cap funds have experienced a decrease of 8%. On the other hand, inflows into large-cap funds have significantly declined by 95% during the same period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJefferies India holds an optimistic outlook for the small- and mid-cap space, primarily due to its greater representation of domestic economy stocks and a substantial increase in their preferred property/industrial stocks. Given the limited investment cycle opportunities for large-cap stocks, the increased demand for small- and mid-caps has the potential to drive significant outperformance.Preferred picksJefferies maintains an overweight stance on the industrial and property sectors within its model portfolio, with a combined overweight of 7 percentage points (ppt). In the industrial sector, its preferred picks include L&T, Siemens, ABB, Thermax, Blue Star, Bharat Electronics, TCI Express, KEI, Polycab, Supreme Industries, Kajaria Ceramics, and Dalmia Cement in the cement industry. Among property stocks, its preferred choices are Lodha, Godrej Properties, DLF, and Prestige.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2023 07:08 AM IST with headline  DSP MF rolls out tech sector ETF after dismal year for IT stocks. Time to scoop up IT stocks? is: 
 Mutual Funds DSP Mutual Fund (DSP MF) has announced the launch of a new fund offer (NFO) -- DSP Nifty IT ETF (DSPNI). It is a passively managed scheme. So, the fund manager of DSPNI will aim to track the Nifty IT index. The launch comes at a time when shares of information technology (IT) companies are going through a volatile phase, despite having handsomely rewarded investors in the long term."The Indian IT sector has been a consistent performer in the long term, thanks to the global competitiveness and edge that they possess, which also bodes well for the foreseeable future. Investors looking to benefit from this long-term growth story may consider investing in the Nifty IT index, which is interestingly poised after underperforming in the recent past," said Anil Ghelani, Head – Passive Investments & Products, DSP Mutual Fund. He is of the opinion that at current levels, valuations are approaching average multiples, and many companies in this sector appear financially healthier and cheaper compared to their global IT peers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: Forex cards or credit cards? Which one is better for foreign travelOver the last year ended June 23, 2023, Nifty IT index has delivered 4.81 percent returns, compared to 21.78 percent returns by the Nifty 50 index.Shares of IT companies performed well, thanks to the use of technology shooting up multifold following the COVID-19 pandemic. The demand for tech services went up sharply, and investors started offering higher valuations to these companies. However, in CY2022, interest rates were hiked to tame rising inflation, and the days of easy money came to an end. That pulled down the valuations enjoyed by equities, especially for loss-making companies in the tech sector. Expectations of a recession on account of rising interest rates, in general, pulled down equities and, in particular, tech stocks, which were enjoying high valuations.
 
The news published on the date June 23, 2023 01:15 PM IST with headline  MC Review: HDFC MF’s new consumption-themed fund comes with a twist. Will it work? is: 
 HNCCF’s strategy would be to invest at least 80 percent of its corpus in stocks which represent the non-cyclical consumer theme. HDFC Mutual Fund has launched a consumer fund, HDFC Non-Cyclical Consumer Fund (HNCCF), which intends to invest across consumption categories with a bottom-up stock selection while eliminating the cyclical sectors in the theme.The new fund offer (NFO) period is from June 23 to July 7.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere are already 12 active funds with this theme in the market. To be sure, HNCCF would be the first active fund based on the consumption theme to be launched in India in over four years.There are five exchange-traded funds (ETFs) as well, with the biggest being Nippon India ETF Nifty India Consumption and ICICI Prudential Nifty India Consumption ETF, with assets under management of Rs 40 crore each.About the fund
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2023 05:04 PM IST with headline  Personal Finance: 3 handy tips to make your SIPs a success is: 
 SIP Systematic investment plans (SIP) have emerged as a popular tool among individual investors for investing in stocks. Per monthly data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), 6.52 crore accounts invested Rs 14,749 crore in May 2023 via SIPs. The number of SIP accounts are on the rise and so is the monthly contribution. However, a SIP does not mean that your returns from mutual funds are guaranteed. Here’s what you need to know about how..
 
The news published on the date June 22, 2023 03:52 PM IST with headline  Five themes that are worth investing today: A handy guide by Trideep Bhattacharya, CIO, Edelweiss MF is: 
 Trideep Bhattacharya, Chief Investment Officer (Equities) at Edelweiss Mutual Fund The Sensex and Nifty are near all-time highs, and mid-cap and small-cap indices have also been on a fine run. Despite this, equity inflows into mutual funds have been falling while redemptions are rising. Nonetheless, Trideep Bhattacharya, Chief Investment Officer (Equities) at Edelweiss Mutual Fund, believes a balanced approach between large, mid- and small-cap funds is good right now, rather than being completely risk-averse. In an interview with Moneycontrol, Bhattacharya addressed whether we are going to see an end to the..
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2023 08:19 PM IST with headline  Sandeep Bagla: A fixed income market champion who is now building Trust MF brick by brick is: 
 Sandeep Bagla, CEO, Trust MF Note to readers: Mutual funds’ chief executive officers are of broadly two types. One group typically rises from fund management. The second group rises from sales and marketing background. Who is better at heading a mutual fund house? The jury is still out. In this series of CEO profiles, we look at the successful fund managers who went on to head fund houses, later in their careers.Trust Asset Management Company, one of India’s newest fund houses, launched its first scheme (Trust Banking and PSU Debt Fund) on February 1, 2021. But its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Sandeep Bagla’s task of building a fund house from scratch had started months earlier.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEarly yearsBorn in a middle-class business family from Kolkata, Bagla studied Economics and did a brief stint as a business journalist before moving to Bhubaneshwar to study management at Xavier Institute of Management in 1992.The Indian economy had opened up, and people were warming up to new ideas and there was optimism in the air. “I was not decided on career choices at that moment but was very clear I would rather be in business and finance,” Bagla says.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2023 04:58 PM IST with headline  Sensex on a high: Here’s why Mirae’s Swarup Mohanty loves largecaps is: 
 Swarup Mohanty, Chief Executive Officer of Mirae Mutual Fund. The Sensex hit an all-time high on June 21 after consolidating for the past eight months. The rally has been fuelled by a revival in Foreign Institutional Investor (FII) inflows. During this period, mid-cap and small-cap indices have also been able to hit their respective record highs.Moneycontrol caught up with Swarup Mohanty, Chief Executive Officer of Mirae Mutual Fund, to get a lowdown on the market outlook, areas of concern and the strategy that investors should follow now. Edited excerpts:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAre we going to see an end to the bull run now? Will equity markets fall?We've always pointed out that once the strength of India data points come out, there will be a reversal of FII flows, and that is what has happened. Look at the last 45 days of flows of FIIs, which has taken the market up. I don't see any reason for any sudden reversal of flows at this moment. However, when stocks go up very suddenly, there is an inherent tendency of markets to sort of consolidate, but there is no data pointing towards a reversal at this moment.Also read | Midcap index at record high: 10 stocks powering the mutual funds
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2023 03:30 PM IST with headline  LIC Mutual Fund set to acquire schemes of IDBI Mutual Fund is: 
 IDBI MF MERGER WITH LIC MF LIC Mutual Fund (LICMF) is all set to take over the schemes of IDBI Mutual Fund (IDBIMF). IDBIMF has sent a letter to all unitholders of its schemes to this effect. The communication also specifies the proposed change in sponsorship, trusteeship, management, and administration of the IDBIMF schemes. Since these changes are fundamental in nature, as per norms, the unitholders of IDBIMF are also offered an exit option without any exit load.ALSO READ: Credit card boom in India: 10 crore cards expected by 2023 endStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOut of the 20 schemes of IDBIMF, 10 will be merged with schemes of LICMF in the same categories. For example, the IDBI Equity Advantage Fund, an ELSS, will be merged with the LICMF Tax Plan. These 10 include five equity funds, one hybrid, and the remaining debt products. The remaining 10 schemes of the fund house will be transferred to LICMF and renamed. These include two schemes that invest in gold, one hybrid, and the remaining, equity schemes.As per the scheme of arrangement between the two fund houses, going forward, LICMF will manage, operate, and administer all of IDBIMF’s schemes. The unitholders of IDBIMF have also been sent a ballot form seeking their approval for this scheme of arrangement. "The voting window will remain open from June 20, 2023, until July 19, 2023 (both days inclusive). All duly signed and filled-up ballot papers received by the Registrar and votes received electronically during this period will be accepted and considered, if found valid, for the purpose of determining the results of the ballot," the letter said. Each unitholder will be entitled to one vote for every unit held.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2023 03:08 PM IST with headline  Will HDFC MF’s new scheme revive the interest in consumer sector funds? is: 
 There are 12 active funds based on the consumption theme. On June 23, HDFC Mutual Fund, India’s third-largest mutual fund house with assets under management of Rs 4.5 trillion, will launch a new scheme called HDFC Non-Cyclical Consumer Fund. This is a sectoral fund, which invests at least 80 percent of its corpus in shares of companies operating in one sector. A consumption-themed fund invests in sectors that are consumption-oriented such as automobiles, fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), consumer durables and telecom. In the HDFC Non-Cyclical Consumer Fund, sectors such as FMCG,..
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2023 02:37 PM IST with headline  Nifty Midcap index at record high: 10 stocks that rewarded the MF investors
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2023 08:19 PM IST with headline  Batsman, bowler, coach: Kotak Mahindra AMC’s Nilesh Shah has worn many leadership hats at fund houses and excelled in each role is: 
 Nilesh Shah, MD, Kotak Mahindra AMC Note to readers: Mutual funds’ chief executive officers are of broadly two types. One group typically rises from fund management. The second group rises from sales and marketing background. Who is better at heading a mutual fund house? The jury is still out. In this series of CEO profiles, we look at the successful fund managers who went on to head fund houses, later in their careers.Nilesh Shah’s humble beginnings in a middle-class neighbourhood, growing up in a 210 sq. ft. room in a chawl in Mumbai, as well as his single-minded focus on his education, would mould him and help him reap rich rewards later.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn 1997, just as he was about to join a large engineering company, a senior executive there advised him to join the financial markets. Shah then joined the ICICI group and was positioned in ICICI Securities. That was a stepping stone to him becoming one of India’s most successful fund managers. Today, Shah is the chief executive officer of Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Co Ltd (AMC), which manages Rs 2.97 trillion of assets. Kotak Mahindra AMC is India’s fifth largest mutual fund (MF) house.He was the head of debt funds at Franklin Templeton India MF between 1997 and 2004. That was the golden age of debt funds, when debt funds outperformed equity funds, and Shah became a star fund manager. In 2002, Franklin India Corporate Debt Fund (Templeton India Income Fund, as it was known back then) gave an 18.3 percent return. Equity funds, on an average, gave 16.4 percent. Between January 2000 and June 2004, when interest rates fell from highs they would never again reach, his debt funds at Franklin Templeton gave a 12 percent return. Equity funds gave just 4.5 percent return in that period.When he joined ICICI Prudential AMC in 2004, the great Indian bull run began. The days of debt funds were over and equity funds staged a massive comeback. Shah took charge as the fund house’s chief investment officer just at the right time and oversaw debt as well as equity funds. He built a solid team of fund managers and research analysts.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2023 10:00 AM IST with headline  Will BlackRock’s spot Bitcoin ETF breathe life into the comatose crypto market? is: 
 SEC has approved Bitcoin futures ETFs in the past that holds futures contracts of Bitcoin, but there are no spot crypto ETFs as of now. US-based asset manager BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, which manages $9.5 trillion in assets, has filed for a Bitcoin Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF). If approved, this could be the first such product in the crypto market, and it is expected to infuse fresh life into the depressed virtual digital assets.The filing by the world’s biggest asset manager has come at a time when the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has taken a tough stance against some of the world’s biggest crypto firms, such as Coinbase and Binance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNotably, BlackRock picked the Nasdaq-listed Coinbase to serve as custodian for its Bitcoin product.“BlackRock’s move testifies the fact that Bitcoin is gaining the attention of leading financial institutions. It remains to be seen if SEC will approve the application but the digital asset ecosystem has received the much-needed push to enter the next phase of growth and mass adoption,” said Shivam Thakral, Chief Executive Officer of BuyUcoin, a crypto exchange.Is it really an ETF?
 
The news published on the date June 17, 2023 07:15 PM IST with headline  Rahul Goswami to join Franklin Templeton India MF as head of fixed income is: 
 Goswami’s entry into the fund house marks the closure of all the debts of five of six debt funds that the fund house had suddenly wound up in April 2020 in the wake of the illiquidity crisis that had erupted due to the onset of Covid-19. In one of the biggest moves in the Rs 40 lakh crore Indian mutual funds (MF) industry seen in recent times, Rahul Goswami, who is presently the Chief Investment Officer (CIO) – Fixed Income at ICICI Prudential MF, is set to join Franklin Templeton India MF as the head of debt funds.Presently, Santosh Kamath heads the debt funds in Franklin Templeton India MF. An email sent to Franklin Templeton, seeking comments, did not elicit a response. Goswami didn’t answer our phone calls and WhatsApp messages.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMeanwhile, ICICI Prudential AMC has announced that Manish Banthia will take over as the CIO - Fixed Income at the fund house.Goswami’s joining Franklin Templeton underscores the fund house’s commitment to the Indian business. It also signals that the fund house is leaving its past behind.Earlier, this week, the MF paid off Rs 39.27 crore to investors of Franklin India Short Term Income Plan (FISTIP). It also paid Rs 138.79 crore to investors of Franklin India Credit Risk Fund (FICRF). Up until now- and including the latest pay-out- Franklin Templeton has paid a cumulative amount to the tune of Rs 27,109.34 crore.
 
The news published on the date June 16, 2023 06:22 PM IST with headline  Motilal Oswal’s Nifty Microcap 250 Index fund aims to pick tomorrow’s multibaggers today. Should you invest? is: 
 The fund managers to the scheme would be Swapnil Mayekar and Rakesh Shetty (for the debt component). Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund has launched India’s first passive scheme, which offers exposure to microcap stocks by investing in companies from the 501 to 750 spot in terms of market capitalisation.According to the classification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the top 100 companies in NSE or BSE are considered large-caps, the firms in the 101-250 rank are considered mid-caps, companies ranked between 251-500 are small-caps and the rest are micro-caps.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMicrocap companies, which comprise approximately 3 percent of the market capitalisation of listed stocks, have distinct characteristics that make them good investment prospects, but with a much higher risk profile.About the schemeThe Nifty Microcap 250 Index, the benchmark for the Motilal Oswal Nifty Microcap 250 Index Fund, is designed to measure the performance of the top 250 microcap companies.
 
The news published on the date June 16, 2023 11:15 AM IST with headline  Can the stake sale in UTI AMC fuel a stock rally? is: 
 aa Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook Highlights Key sponsors holding 45% equity mulling stake sale MF AUM sizeable; non-MF AUM is also substantial Asset mix unfavourable with lesser proportion of equity assets Enjoys higher AUM from B30 cities and has a well-diversified distribution channel Lower profitability, compared to peers The key sponsors of UTI Asset Management Company (CMP: Rs 683; M Cap: Rs 8,690 crore) have initiated the process to sell their stake, according to media reports. The reports say that three state-owned banks, PNB, BoB, and SBI, and Life Insurance Corporation..
 
The news published on the date June 16, 2023 10:03 AM IST with headline  Will direct plan expenses of MFs go up with execution-only platforms? is: 
 Existing platforms that help you buy MFs online have time till September 30 to get registered under either of the categories. With regulations in place for execution-only platforms (EOP) to enable direct mutual fund (MF) investments, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has made it possible for more such platforms to flourish.An EOP is meant for direct MF investors who do not wish to avail of any investment advice from distributors or registered investment advisors (RIA). The new EOP rules allow EOPs to act either as agents of asset management companies (EOP 1), or as a stockbroker (EOP 2).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAn EOP 1 would need to be registered with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), the industry body for India's mutual fund sector.An EOP 2 would need to be registered as a stock broker with SEBI and can operate only through the platforms provided by stock exchanges.Existing platforms that help you buy MFs online and can be called as EOPs (such as Paytm Money, Groww, ET Money, and Zerodha Coin) have time till September 30 to get registered under either of the categories.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2023 07:23 AM IST with headline  This Father’s Day, show Papa you care: Here are 5 financial gifts for your Dad is: 
 Father’s Day, needless to say, is an occasion to celebrate and honor your father. This year, Father's Day is on 18 June — the date changes each year because it is celebrated on the third Sunday in June. Father’s Day, needless to say, is an occasion to celebrate and honor your father.While traditional gifts like cards, clothes, ties, and gadgets are popular choices, a financial gift can have a more meaningful and lasting impact. Such a gift not only demonstrates your love and appreciation but will also contribute to your father's long-term financial well-being.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLet’s look at a range of thoughtful financial gift ideas that can help your father achieve his financial goals and secure a brighter future.Gift an affordable health plan for preventive healthcareThis is one of the best financial gifts you can gift your parents, especially if they are elderly. It’s often difficult for elderly people to get health insurance on account of their age. An elderly father is more susceptible to non-communicable diseases. A good health cover can help your father get reimbursed for hospitalisation expenses, if and when they come.
 
The news published on the date June 15, 2023 10:50 AM IST with headline  Cautious of market highs, these large-caps exit MF portfolio
 
The news published on the date June 17, 2023 08:15 PM IST with headline  Explainer: How SEBI’s norms on execution-only platforms will impact investors is: 
 In a first-of-its-kind move aimed at investor protection, the Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has come out with a regulatory framework for execution-only platforms (EOPs) for mutual fund investing, making it mandatory for these entities to get registered and barring them from offering regular plans.For the regulation purpose, SEBI has defined an EOP as a digital or online platform, which facilitates transactions such as subscription, redemption and switch transactions in direct plans of schemes of mutual funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWe look at how these regulations will impact investors and companies and whether the norms will increase costs for investors.What are the key points in the regulations?As per the capital markets regulator, entities looking to operate as an EOP can register under one of the two categories – EOP 1 or EOP 2.
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2023 06:09 PM IST with headline  More AMCs make a beeline for Multi Asset Allocation Funds is: 
 Apart from debt, equity and gold, multi asset allocation funds can also invest in silver, units of REITs & InvITs, as well as overseas equities. Thanks to the debt taxation change in the recent Union budget, Indian asset management companies have turned their attention to Multi Asset Allocation Funds (MAAF), with Bank of India Mutual Fund, Kotak Mutual Fund and Shriram Mutual Fund filing for schemes under this category with the regulator.Multi Asset Allocation Funds, which come under the hybrid mutual fund category, invest at least 10 percent of their assets in at least three asset classes, with a minimum allocation of at least 10 percent to each.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdApart from debt, equity and gold, some funds also invest in silver, units of REITs & InvITs, as well as overseas equities.Currently, there are 11 Multi Asset Allocation Funds available in the market, while one is in the new fund offer (NFO) stage.Under the changes to the Finance Act, gains from investments in mutual funds, where not more than 35 percent is invested in domestic equities, will now be taxed at the slab rate of the investor.
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2023 10:15 AM IST with headline  Inflation down: But does that mean rates will be cut soon? is: 
 INFLATION IS DOWN Consumer inflation printed lower at 4.25 percent in May 2023 compared to 4.7 percent the previous month. This was the fourth monthly drop in a row and is the lowest point of the last 25 months. Despite this, few experts are talking of a rate cut by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in the current year. However, bond market experts say that there is a scope for moderation in yields later this year, rewarding investors.Down, but not outStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn its monetary policy announcement of June 8, the RBI forecast the inflation to be at 5.1 percent for FY2023-2024, compared to 5.2 percent in its previous outlook. Though inflation is printing lower numbers, most experts are of the view that it may not fall much. The current decline is more to do with the base effect. Also, going forward, inflation may spike if El Nino fears play out and the monsoon is delayed.“While favorable base effects will remain in play in 1HFY24, upside risks remain from monsoon-related uncertainties. We revise down our FY2023-24 headline inflation estimate to 4.9 percent from 5.1 percent earlier,” wrote Suvodeep Rakshit, Senior Economist, Kotak Institutional Equities, in his Economy Research note titled — ‘Inflation surprises on the downside in May’. “While the lower-than-expected number in May will increase markets’ expectations of an earlier-than-expected start to a rate cut cycle by the RBI, we retain our view of an extended pause,” he added.ALSO READ: With RBI hitting a pause, what happens to your EMIs?
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2023 06:45 PM IST with headline  SEBI issues regulations for execution-only platforms for direct mutual fund schemes is: 
 EOPs would be required to maintain an arm’s length relationship, if performing multiple activities within the same entity, so as to avoid conflict of interest. The Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has made it compulsory for execution-only platforms (EOPs) to get registered with the regulators and barred them from offering regular plans of mutual funds schemes as part of the new regulatory framework introduced for such platforms for direct mutual fund investing.An EOP is a digital or online platform which facilitates transactions such as subscription, redemption and switch transactions in direct plans of schemes of mutual funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUp till now, there was no specific framework available for technology/digital platforms (including platforms provided by Investment Advisers/Stock Brokers to non-clients) to provide execution-only services in direct plans of mutual fund schemes.As per the SEBI circular dated June 13, no entity would be allowed to operate as an EOP without obtaining registration from SEBI or the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), as the case may be.Also read | Bajaj Housing Finance extends home loan tenor to 40 years: Should you opt for a home loan with longer tenor?
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2023 09:26 AM IST with headline  How LIC Mutual Fund's chief executive plans to turn the tortoise into a hare is: 
 TS Ramakrishnan, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of LIC Mutual Fund. When India’s largest insurance company sponsors a mutual fund house that is India’s 24th largest in terms of assets under management, there is a problem. But TS Ramakrishnan, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of LIC Mutual Fund, who has just completed a year at the fund house, has a plan to resuscitate it from the insignificant existence it has had for a long.Ramakrishnan believes that like the sponsor, the fund house should logically be among the top asset management companies in the country.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLaunched in 1989, the fund house was the sixth biggest AMC in November 2009 with assets of around Rs 50,000 crore. However, it had assets worth just Rs 18,719 crore at the end of May 2023.In an interview with Moneycontrol, Ramakrishnan, who took over one of the oldest asset management companies (AMC) in India in March 2022, shared what has weighed on the fund house and listed the roadmap for the next five years.Also read | How much health insurance should a fresher get?
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2023 11:56 AM IST with headline  Has the time come for credit risk funds again? Yes, says R Sivakumar of Axis MF is: 
 R Sivakumar-Head- Fixed Income, Axis Mutual Fund The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on June 8 kept the policy rates unchanged for the second straight time. Although inflation is on its way down, it is still away from the 4 percent target.What should debt fund investors do?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdR Sivakumar, Head-Fixed Income at Axis Mutual Fund, says that among other avenues to earn a regular income, it’s time to look at credit risk again. But in a measured way.Sivakumar has been with the fund house since its inception in 2009. He has been leading the fixed-income team since 2010. The fixed-income team currently manages assets worth Rs 89,234 crore across 28 schemes as of May 31, 2023. The fund house managed to navigate the credit crisis well for the investors, and for that, Sivakumar gives credit to the risk management practices the fund house has put in place.Credit risk is not the same as it was before
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2023 01:21 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds lose Rs 342 cr in just two sessions as bears plunder IEX shares is: 
 IEX has already lost a chunk of the market pie with the share down to 89-90 percent last year from 94-95 percent earlier thanks to the incentives provided by competitor exchanges. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × In just two sessions when India Energy Exchange (IEX) faced the onslaught from bears, active mutual fund scheme were left with a paper loss of Rs 342 crore as the value of their holdings dropped sharply. The shares were hammered after after the government came out with a directive to speed up the consultation process and finalise the implementation of market coupling. This will be a “big negative” for IEX, said analysts.As of April-end, for which the data is available, mutual funds held Rs 1,948 crore worth of IEX shares as of June 7, whose value came down to Rs 1,606 crore as of June 9 after the stocks fell 8 percent and 10 percent in two days, respectively.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe biggest loser seems to be Mirae Asset Mutual Fund, which held the stock in eight of its schemes, losing Rs 176 crore worth of value – half of the value lost by the all mutual funds. This was followed by a loss of Rs 118 crore for Parag Parikh Mutual Fund. Both these asset managers lost about Rs 300 crore. PGIM Mutual Fund, losing Rs 23 crore in two days, completed the top three.Please note that this data does not include any buying or selling that mutual fund companies may have done in June. It is also not clear if any mutual fund managers have offloaded any stake in IEX in the last two days.We could not immediately reach these mutual fund managers.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2023 10:47 AM IST with headline  HDFC Defence Fund to stop lumpsum investments and new STPs, restricts SIPs to Rs 10,000 is: 
 HDFC DEFENCE FUND REPRESENTATIVE HDFC Mutual Fund has announced its decision to discontinue accepting lumpsum investments in its recently launched HDFC Defence Fund from June 12, 2023, owing to a limited number of defence sector stocks.The scheme was launched on May 19 and its new fund offer (NFO) period closed on May 30. The fund house has also decided to impose restrictions on the maximum investments through systematic investment plans (SIP), limiting it to Rs 10,000 per month. It will not accept switch-in requests into the HDFC Defence Fund and not allow fresh registrations of systematic transfer plans (STP).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: A surgical strike: HDFC MF launches defence-themed fund. Should you invest?The restrictions on SIP will be applicable on the first holder PAN level. There are no restrictions on switching out or redeeming the units of the scheme. SIP and STP registered before June 12, 2023, will be processed.ALSO READ: Franklin Templeton repays investors of two debt funds
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2023 10:29 AM IST with headline  Fee caps to dent profits for MFs by 30% or more, predicts Jefferies study is: 
 AMC stocks The introduction of the proposed fee caps for mutual fund schemes may potentially drive the profits of asset management companies (AMCs) down 30 percent.Larger AMCs may face an even greater impact, with profits taking up to a 50 percent dent. Lower fees imposed on larger funds could discourage consolidation and merger and acquisition (M&A) activities within the sector.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Ceteris paribus, the impact on profit from change in equity-linked TER could be 30 percent of profit. This should rise as select debt funds that get higher TER than new caps (like credit funds, duration funds) are included and arbitrage funds slip into losses. The impact on profits is also divergent (1) Top-5 funds should see 50 percent fall in profit, (2) Next-5 a 17 percent fall, (3) Next-10 a 37 percent rise, (4) Next-10 a 28 percent fall and (5) others (below #30) a 25 percent rise," a Jefferies report said.According to recent calculations by Jefferies, proposed fee caps on equity-linked assets under management (AUMs) of mutual funds could result in a 30 basis point (bps) decrease in equity fees for large asset management companies (AMCs). Conversely, smaller AMCs with AUMs below $10 billion may experience an increase of approximately 10 bps. This divergence in fees, ranging from 60 to 100 bps, could potentially lead to a loss of market share for small AMCs, with larger ones benefiting.Sebi has recently proposed a uniform total expense ratio (TER) across mutual fund schemes, in an effort to bring greater transparency in the costs charged to unitholders.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2023 09:10 AM IST with headline  Franklin Templeton repays investors of two debt funds is: 
 Franklin Templeton India mutual fund distributes recovered money to unit holders in wound-up schemes Franklin Templeton India mutual fund will repay an amount of Rs 178.06 crore to investors of two of its wound-up debt schemes, starting June 14 across two of its schemes.The fund house announced that it will pay off Rs 39.27 crore to investors of Franklin India Short Term Income Plan (FISTIP). It will also pay 138.79 crore to investors of Franklin India Credit Risk Fund (FICRF). The fund announced that the payment will be made electronically to all eligible unitholders by SBI MF.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter this payout, Franklin Templeton would have paid a cumulative amount to the tune of Rs 27109.34 crore. All the six schemes have paid more than 100 percent of the schemes' assets under management at the time of winding it up. While some of Franklin Templeton's exposures have defaulted on their debt obligations, several of its exposures continued to service the debt repayments and there were also securities that were sold at a profit. This has led to the cash distribution being over 100 percent.Additionally, after this week's payout, Franklin Templeton mutual fund pays off all the debts of- and extinguishes units in- five of six debt funds. Only one scheme- FISTIP- would remain.In April 2020, Franklin Templeton India Mutual Fund shocked investors when it abruptly wound up six debt funds. On April 23, 2020, the fund house announced that it was winding up the six debt schemes – Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund (FIUBF), Franklin India Low Duration Fund (FILDF), Franklin India Short Term Income Plan (FISTIP), Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund (FIIOF), Franklin India Credit Risk Fund (FICRF) and Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund (FIDAF).
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2023 04:00 PM IST with headline  Why have China-focussed mutual funds hit a bump, again? is: 
 There are four funds in India that focus on China. Just when it seemed that the Chinese equity markets were on a rebound, they hit a speed-breaker, yet again.China-focussed mutual fund schemes in India have fallen again. Axis Greater China Equity Fund of Fund is down 6.23 percent since the start of the year, Edelweiss Greater China Equity has fallen 4.94 percent, and Nippon India ETF Hang Seng BeES is down 2.21 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat went wrong?At the turn of this year, it was expected that China’s economic growth momentum would be sustained with coronavirus infections having peaked in the country, supporting investor sentiment and market performance.However, things didn’t pan out well for China-focussed schemes. COVID-19 Vaccine Frequently Asked Questions View more How does a vaccine work? A vaccine works by mimicking a natural infection. A vaccine not only induces immune response to protect people from any future COVID-19 infection, but also helps quickly build herd immunity to put an end to the pandemic. Herd immunity occurs when a sufficient percentage of a population becomes immune to a disease, making the spread of disease from person to person unlikely. The good news is that SARS-CoV-2 virus has been fairly stable, which increases the viability of a vaccine. How many types of vaccines are there? There are broadly four types of vaccine — one, a vaccine based on the whole virus (this could be either inactivated, or an attenuated [weakened] virus vaccine); two, a non-replicating viral vector vaccine that uses a benign virus as vector that carries the antigen of SARS-CoV; three, nucleic-acid vaccines that have genetic material like DNA and RNA of antigens like spike protein given to a person, helping human cells decode genetic material and produce the vaccine; and four, protein subunit vaccine wherein the recombinant proteins of SARS-COV-2 along with an adjuvant (booster) is given as a vaccine. What does it take to develop a vaccine of this kind? Vaccine development is a long, complex process. Unlike drugs that are given to people with a diseased, vaccines are given to healthy people and also vulnerable sections such as children, pregnant women and the elderly. So rigorous tests are compulsory. History says that the fastest time it took to develop a vaccine is five years, but it usually takes double or sometimes triple that time. View more Show
 
The news published on the date June 09, 2023 03:27 PM IST with headline  Equity mutual fund inflows halve to Rs 3,240 crore in May, SIP book hits record high is: 
 Net inflows into equity mutual funds during April had stood at Rs 6,480.29 crore. Inflows into equity mutual funds slumped by 50 percent in May to Rs 3,240.30 crore as investors took some money off the table, data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed.The May equity inflows have been the lowest since November 2022, when the number stood at around Rs 2,500 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDespite the fall, equity fund inflows have remained in the positive zone for 27 straight months now.Further, inflows via the systematic investment plan (SIP) route hit the fresh record high of Rs 14,748.68 crore in May. In April, fresh investments via SIPs stood at Rs 13,727.63 crore compared with Rs 14,276 crore in March, a fresh all-time high then.Overall, the net inflows into open-ended mutual funds stood at Rs 59,879.31 crore in May against Rs 1.24 trillion in the previous month.
 
The news published on the date June 09, 2023 09:33 AM IST with headline  MFs can now participate in repos on Commercial Papers, Certificate of Deposits is: 
 Repo is borrowing or lending on a collateral of a security such as a bond. To develop the corporate bond market from the perspective of mutual funds, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has allowed asset management companies to participate in repos on Commercial Papers (CPs) and Certificate of Deposits (CDs).Repo is borrowing or lending on collateral of a security such as a bond. So, when a security is being bought or sold today, it will be reversed tomorrow or as per the contract, and the rate is decided today.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurther, CP is an unsecured, short-period debt tool issued by a company, usually for the finance and inventories and temporary liabilities, while the CD is a fixed-income financial instrument governed under the Reserve Bank and India (RBI) issued in a dematerialized form.Also read | American credit card users owe nearly $1 trillion: Here’s how to avoid their mistakesAs per the SEBI circular date June 8, 2023, for the purpose of consideration of credit rating of exposure on repo transactions for various purposes including for Potential Risk Class (PRC) matrix, liquidity ratios, Risk-o-meter etc., the same shall be as that of the underlying securities, i.e., on a look through basis.
 
The news published on the date June 08, 2023 02:44 PM IST with headline  Reaching that crorepati milestone hinges on your commitment to investing is: 
 Indian investors lean towards direct equities after the age of 35, driven by substantial investible funds and a heightened sense of responsibility. The number of investors with asset portfolios worth at least Rs 1 crore sees a notable surge after the age of 50, highlighting that for accumulating greater wealth one needs to stay invested for the longer term. Also, the process of wealth creation undergoes a substantial acceleration primarily between 35 and 49 years.Further, as investors get older, they are more comfortable investing by taking a lump-sum approach.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThese are the findings of a survey conducted by Research & Ranking, a Securities and Exchange Board of India-registered investment advisory firm, involving 2,000 respondents.DIY investorsHighlighting the inexperience among Indian investors, the study showed that about 50 percent of investors have spent less than four years in the equity market, with 12 percent falling under the category of having experience of less than one year.
 
The news published on the date June 08, 2023 02:26 PM IST with headline  RBI MPC Meet: Amber signal tells debt fund investors to keep steady on the path; not too fast, not too slow is: 
 RBI MPC MEET The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee decided to keep the policy rates unchanged. However, inflation remains sticky at current levels and may take time to come down. That leaves fixed-income investors in a tough situation. Here is how experts advise investors to go about investing in debt funds.Why the status quo?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMany experts had anticipated that the MPC meet will not tinker with the policy rates.RBI governor Shaktikanta Das made it clear that the focus on inflation targeting continues as the CPI inflation is projected at 5.1 percent for FY2023-24. This is above the target of 4 percent (within a band of +/- 2 percent) set by the RBI. The central bank has also reiterated that economic growth is on track. It forecast the real GDP growth for 2022-23 at 7.2 per cent and for 2023-2024 at 6.5 percent. The RBI has to target inflation at a time of strong domestic growth and weak global cues in the form of recessionary fears. The situation becomes further complicated due to early indications of El Nino – a weather condition wherein the distribution of monsoon may get adversely affected.ALSO READ: ESG or non-ESG funds: Which scheme to pick? | Simply Save
 
The news published on the date June 09, 2023 12:15 PM IST with headline  Franklin Templeton equity funds go up when things are down. Here's why is: 
 Janakiraman R, Senior VP and Portfolio Manager, Emerging Markets Equity - India, Franklin Templeton Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund manages Rs 66,507 crore of investor money (as of April-end, 2023) across its equity, debt, and hybrid schemes. The Franklin India Flexi Cap Fund, the fund house’s largest scheme in terms of assets managed, is, however, far from being a category topper. Its returns record puts it just about in the middle of the category – ranked 15 out of 35 flexi-cap funds.But the scheme has beaten its benchmark, the Nifty 500 TRI (total return index), in 1-year, 3-year, and 10-year returns. On a 5-year return basis, the scheme just about matches the index performance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis is broadly in line with what Janakiraman R, Senior VP and Portfolio Manager, Emerging Markets Equity - India, Franklin Templeton, says is their approach to managing the scheme.“Our product philosophy is not to aim for the stars in terms of portfolio construction, but to consistently deliver 50-100 basis points (bps) alpha over the index.” Alpha is the excess return relative to a market benchmark for a given amount of risk taken by a scheme.The scheme is managed by three fund managers, Anand Radhakrishnan (since 2007), Janakiraman (since 2011), and Sandeep Manam (for investments in foreign securities).
 
The news published on the date June 06, 2023 07:34 PM IST with headline  ICICI Pru Bluechip Fund completes 15 years. Does it still have its mojo? is: 
 As compared to the benchmark, currently, the portfolio of the scheme is overweight in auto, industrial products, capital goods and telecom. ICICI Prudential Bluechip Fund, which is among the biggest actively managed equity funds, has completed 15 years in existence. The scheme had assets under management (AUM) of Rs 37,016 crore as of May end.The scheme is a large-cap fund and is benchmarked against the Nifty 100 Total Return Index.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdReturnsICICI Prudential Bluechip Fund was launched amid the global financial crisis in 2008 and as per the fund house, the scheme has delivered a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 13.98 percent since inception.This means that Rs 10 lakh invested during the new fund offer (NFO) period of the scheme have grown to Rs 71.5 lakh currently. Further, in the same year, an investment in the benchmark of the scheme would have fetched the investor Rs 46.8 lakh.
 
The news published on the date June 06, 2023 05:41 PM IST with headline  Bajaj Finance to bring down dependence on telemarketing calls: Sanjiv Bajaj is: 
 Clause 8 of its Code of Conduct (part of SEBI mutual fund regulations’ Fifth Schedule) says that ‘trustees and the asset management company shall maintain high standards of integrity and fairness in all their dealings and in the conduct of their business.’ Bajaj Finance aims to bring down the value of loans that are pushed through phone calls to less than 10 percent of its business, said Sanjiv Bajaj, chairman and managing director of Bajaj Finserv, the parent of the finance company. Eventually, the firm wishes to reach a point where it will no longer call people and ask them if they wish to take a loan, he added.“Our aim would ideally be to bring this business down to 10 percent, and then to zero percent…so that our calls will only be service calls,” said Bajaj, during a press conference at the launch of Bajaj Finserv Asset Management Company in Mumbai.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“All promotional activity will happen through our digital channels; that is where we want to go.”Currently, around 15 percent of Bajaj Finance’s loan book has been built of loans that are solicited (or pushed) to customers. The company’s aggressive marketing push to build its loan book has made it the subject of social memes. To be sure, telemarketing calls to sell loans is widely practiced in India’s financial services industry.Additionally, he said that in three months’ time, Bajaj Finserv’s website and its mobile application will have an option where borrowers and investors and clients can choose to never be “bothered again”.
 
The news published on the date June 08, 2023 09:20 AM IST with headline  Over 1,200% returns in 2 years, but not over yet: MF still hold these multibagger smallcap stocks
 
The news published on the date June 06, 2023 06:45 AM IST with headline  Bajaj Finserv MF, India’s newest, to launch today is: 
 India’s newest mutual fund house is here. On June 6, Bajaj Finserv, India’s 43rd asset management company (AMC), will be launched India’s newest mutual fund house is here. On June 6, Bajaj Finserv, India’s 43rd asset management company (AMC), will be launched. Bajaj Finserv AMC is a subsidiary of Bajaj Finserv, the holding company for the various financial services businesses under the Pune-based Bajaj Group. This will also be the first fund house to be headquartered in Pune. Typically, mutual funds houses are based out of Mumbai, though some new-age fund houses are coming up in Bengaluru as well.Building a product basketStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt has got capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) approval to launch seven schemes, at the moment. Three of these are debt schemes (a liquid fund, an overnight fund and a money market fund) and three are equity-oriented (a balanced advantage fund, a large- and mid-cap fund and a flexi-cap fund). The fund house has also got an approval to launch an arbitrage fund. Shorter-duration debt funds are essential in a mutual fund’s basket as it helps investors to start systematic transfer plans (STPs). An STP helps investors transfer an equal amount of money from a debt fund (usually a liquid fund or a similar scheme) to an equity fund.The new fund house is among the long list of newly set-up fund houses in the Rs 40-trillion Indian mutual funds industry. Between 2021 and now, five mutual funds have entered the industry. In 2019, ITI and WhiteOak mutual funds launched their first schemes. In 2021, NJ and Trust mutual funds launched their first set of schemes. Samco mutual fund launched its first scheme in 2022.Supermarket; not niche
 
The news published on the date June 05, 2023 10:36 AM IST with headline  UTI Nifty 50 Equal Weight Index Fund NFO: Should you invest? is: 
 Index Funds The UTI Nifty 50 Equal Weight Index Fund (UNE50) is an open-ended scheme replicating or tracking NIFTY50 Equal Weight Total Return Index (NE50). Put simply, this scheme will attempt to offer returns in line with the underlying index before accounting for expenses and tracking error.Sharwan Kumar Goyal will be managing this scheme. The index allocates an equal amount of money (2 percent) to each stock in Nifty 50. The weightage is rebalanced every quarter.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat works?The index consists of Nifty 50 stocks. These are large companies with an established track record. For those who wish to stay away from small and mid-sized companies, where you could end up investing in companies or management with little or no track record, this sort of a large-cap fund offers solace. It also reduces your portfolio’s volatility because large and well-established companies are among the least volatile on the stock markets.ALSO READ: NFO review: Edelweiss MF’s new multi-asset fund is debt-focussed with indexation taxation benefit
 
The news published on the date June 05, 2023 12:43 PM IST with headline  MFs – The losers and the gainers in the new regime is: 
 aa Highlights SEBI’s proposal on TER will have far reaching impact Equity assets will have the highest impact followed by hybrid schemes Larger AMCs will be at a disadvantage, reduces operating leverage benefit Brokers (institutional) and distributors to bear the brunt The asset management industry is staring at big regulatory changes. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has floated a consultation paper proposing a slew of changes in the total expense ratio (TER), the fees that asset managers charge investors every year to..
 
The news published on the date June 05, 2023 09:29 AM IST with headline  NFO review: Edelweiss MF’s new multi-asset fund is debt-focussed with indexation taxation benefit is: 
 Edelweiss Multi Asset Allocation Fund offers the indexation benefit when it comes to taxation if held for more than three years. Edelweiss Asset Management Company has launched a multi-asset fund which will predominantly be fixed-income oriented, with exposure to equities, gold, and silver.Multi-asset allocation funds, which come under the hybrid mutual fund category, invest a minimum of 10 percent of their assets in each of at least three different asset classes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere are 11 multi-asset funds available in the market. Data from ACE MF, a mutual fund research firm, shows that the category average allocation to equities stands at around 65 percent, with 13.7 percent going to debt, and 21.29 allocation to others, which includes cash, overseas equities, and units of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REIT) and Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvIT).Experts believe that the new fund could be a reaction to changes in mutual fund taxation, which made debt funds unattractive.Also read | Do equity savings funds make sense after the tax hit on debt mutual funds?
 
The news published on the date June 03, 2023 08:32 AM IST with headline  Do equity savings funds make sense after the tax hit on debt mutual funds? is: 
 Equity Savings Funds derive their returns from three different sources ― stock arbitrage, equities and debt. With the changes in the taxation of debt fund units purchased after April 1, investors with low-risk appetite are looking for alternate investment options where they can reduce their overall tax liability.Following the changes to the Finance Act, gains from investments in mutual funds, where not more than 35 percent is invested in domestic equities, are now taxed at a maximum marginal rate. Further, debt mutual funds no longer enjoy the benefits of long-term capital gains (LTCG) and indexation for fresh investments starting April 1.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOne category that is expected to benefit is hybrid funds, which offer a balanced approach to risk and reward by investing in both equity and debt, among other asset classes.While Dynamic Asset Allocation/Balanced Advantage and Multi Asset Allocation stand to gain from the taxation change, another category, which had largely gone under the radar ― Equity Savings Fund ― can also return to the limelight, experts say.Eyeing a bigger pie now
 
The news published on the date June 02, 2023 11:46 AM IST with headline  Planning to look at MF stock picks last month and play copy cat? Here’s why you shouldn’t is: 
 Mutual Funds It’s that time of the month again. There is a steady flow of information from mutual funds, as they declare their portfolios for the previous month and reveal their picks. And, as they do every month, newspapers and digital websites will bombard their readers with information about the stocks and bonds that fund managers bought last month.Investors pore through this data and some look to buy the stocks purchased by mutual fund managers, with the aim of earning quick returns. However, that strategy is tough to replicate, and of little help. Here’s why:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhom to followThere are hundreds of actively managed equity schemes and it is hard to decide which fund manager to follow. Even if you pick the best fund manager of the previous year, there is no assurance that s/he will do well the next year. If you choose to mimic a few smart money managers, then, taken together, there may be too many stock picks among them.ALSO READ: HDFC Mutual Fund sends notice to investors about change of sponsor. What should you do?
 
The news published on the date June 02, 2023 10:55 AM IST with headline  HDFC Mutual Fund sends notice to investors about change of sponsor. What should you do? is: 
 Mutual Funds HDFC Asset Management Company (AMC), India’s third largest mutual fund house with assets of over Rs 4.63 lakh crore, has written to the unitholders of all its schemes about the change in control and sponsorship of HDFC Mutual Fund. This change is set to occur through a proposed amalgamation process, subject to regulatory approvals.Why the change of control?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHDFC Investments and HDFC Holdings, both wholly owned subsidiaries of Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC), will be merged into HDFC. These mergers are triggered by the impending merger of HDFC into HDFC Bank. After these mergers, the surviving entity will be HDFC Bank. This will result in a change in the control and sponsorship of HDFC MF, with HDFC Bank becoming the new sponsor instead of HDFC. HDFC and Abrdn Investment Management are the co-sponsors of the fund house.Does that impact HDFC MF?The merger proposed and the resultant change in control and sponsorship will not impact the day-to-day operations of HDFC MF. There will neither be any changes to the names of the mutual fund schemes managed by HDFC AMC nor will there be any changes in the investment objectives of the schemes. HDFC AMC continues to manage the schemes and the management personnel including the fund managers will not be affected due to this change.
 
The news published on the date June 01, 2023 07:10 PM IST with headline  Radhika Gupta’s Edelweiss MF shifts focus to multi-asset allocation fund after debt taxation change is: 
 Multi Asset Allocation Funds, which come under the hybrid mutual fund category, invest at least 10 percent of their assets in at least three asset classes. Asset Management Companies (AMCs) have been lining up multi-asset allocation schemes that invest across asset classes after the tax rules became unfavorable to debt fundsEdelweiss Mutual Fund is due to launch an open-ended scheme investing in equity, debt, commodities and in units of Real Estate Investment Trusts and Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) on June 5.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEdelweiss MF’s Chief Executive Officer Radhika Gupta has been offering teasers on the fund on social media these past few days.Multi Asset Allocation Funds, which come under the hybrid mutual fund category, invest at least 10 percent of their assets in at least three asset classes with a minimum allocation of at least 10 percent to each.Apart from debt, equity and gold, some funds also invest in silver and units of REITs and InvITs.
 
The news published on the date June 02, 2023 02:02 PM IST with headline  ULIP debt funds back in focus after debt mutual funds taxation. Here’s the top performing funds
 
The news published on the date June 01, 2023 07:33 AM IST with headline  Can arbitrage funds sustain the momentum? is: 
 ARBITRAGE FUNDS ARE ATTRACTIVE Arbitrage mutual funds, which make money on the price differential between the cash and futures markets, received Rs 3,716 crore of inflows in April.Assets under management for arbitrage schemes stood at Rs 71,106 crore as of April 30, 2023. The monthly data has been released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe removal of long-term capital gains tax benefits on debt funds is partly responsible for a shift in investor’s money. But arbitrage funds are not a replacement for debt funds.Arbitrage funds are expected to be a beneficiary of the decision of taxing capital gains on investments in debt funds without indexation. Recent derivative expiry notes released by mutual fund houses are vocal about the optimism around the spot-futures arbitrage strategy.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2023 05:25 PM IST with headline  From Rs 40 trillion to Rs 100 trillion: How SEBI wants mutual funds to chart the way forward is: 
 Madhabi Puri Buch, Chairperson, SEBI, says from AMFI 1.0 to AMFI 2.0, the association needs to become more vigilant to ensure that the law and ethics are followed. Madhabi Puri Buch, chairperson of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), wants mutual funds to focus on leveraging technology, bringing in robust self-regulation and setting up internal mechanisms to catch frauds as the industry marches towards the Rs 100 trillion assets under management (AUM) milestone.She expressed confidence in the industry's potential to more than double from its current size of around Rs 40 trillion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBuch was speaking at the inauguration of the new office of the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI), which was attended by top executives of most Indian fund houses.The chairperson highlighted that mutual funds was the most preferred vehicle by which SEBI would like to bring household savings into the market.Also read | SEBI nudges AMFI to form ethics committee to catch bad apples in time
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2023 12:57 PM IST with headline  SEBI nudges AMFI to form ethics committee to catch bad apples in time is: 
 To be sure AMFI is not yet a Self-Regulatory Organisation (SRO). Despite this, Buch added that the MF industry (through AMFI) must form a way “to take action on individuals who are doing wrong things in the market.” The capital market regulator has nudged the Indian mutual fund sector to form an ethics committee as one the first steps needed on its journey to manage assets worth Rs 100 lakh crore, more than double the present size of Rs 40 lakh crore.Madhabi Puri Buch, chairperson of the Securities and Exchange Board of India who spoke at the inauguration of the new office of the Association of Mutual Funds of India, was full of praise for the mutual fund sector. She spoke eloquently about how mutual funds were the chosen vehicle to encourage Indians to invest in the economy and participate in the country’s growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut to build a “superstructure on top of a solid foundation it has built over all these years,” Buch said it was important to keep a check on individual conduct. And here’s where she nudged AMFI to form an ethics committee.“The only risk to the MF industry is individual conduct. When this reaches a high level, unfortunately, the regulator has no option but to come with a hammer,” she said.Also read | SEBI has plans to catch unregistered investment advisors. "Something's cooking"
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2023 07:32 AM IST with headline  Parag Parikh Flexi Cap Fund: So far, so good. But can it do an encore? is: 
 Parag Parikh Flexi Cap Fund has been a major hit among investors as the scheme’s assets have ballooned from around Rs 3,000 crore in March 2020 to Rs 33,000 crore currently. Parag Parikh Flexi Cap Fund (PPFCP), which recently completed 10 years of existence, is among the biggest equity schemes in India with assets under management (AUM) of over Rs 33,500 crore. It has been a fairy-tale ride for the mutual fund (MF) scheme, which started with an AUM of just around Rs 150 crore.PPFAS Mutual Fund, which also turned 10 as the flexi cap fund was their first offering, started off as a stock broking house in the early 1990s. Parag Parikh, who passed away in 2015, had founded it.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPPFCP has been a major hit among investors as the scheme’s assets have ballooned from around Rs 3,000 crore in March 2020. Data shows that it is the best-performing fund in its category over a five-year period.While the fund has benefited immensely from its true-to-label approach and allocation to US equities in the past, experts highlight key challenges that the scheme might face after becoming large in asset size and the restrictions on overseas investments. We delve deeper.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2023 10:50 AM IST with headline  “Something’s cooking:” SEBI’s Buch signals bitter pill for unregistered investment advisors coming soon is: 
 When asked about what SEBI intends to do with the growing tribe of unregistered advisors, chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch said that SEBI is working on it. (file image) India’s capital market regulator is preparing norms or a mechanism that will likely bring unregistered investment advisors in its ambit.“Something’s cooking. Wait for some time,” Madhabi Puri Buch, chairperson of the Securities and Exchange Board of India, said in response to a query from Moneycontrol on whether it had a mechanism to nab unregistered investment advisors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBuch, who spoke at a press conference after inaugurating the Association of Mutual Funds of India’s new office in Mumbai, did not elaborate.SEBI has been cracking down on investment advisors and financial influencers who have not registered with the regulator. On May 25, SEBI asked finfluencer PR Sundar, his company Mansun Consulting, and co-promoter Mangayarkarasi Sundar to pay Rs 15.6 lakh each and refund a total of Rs 6.07 crore to settle complaints that they provided investment advisory services without the requisite registration.A few days later, SEBI let off finfluencer Gunjan Verma with a warning not to offer unregistered investment advisory services, although it didn’t find evidence that Verma had been doing so.
 
The news published on the date May 30, 2023 06:31 AM IST with headline  Our job is to create wealthy investors, not run after them: Parag Parikh AMC is: 
 Neil Parikh (Left), Chief Executive Officer, PPFAS Mutual Fund and Rajeev Thakkar, Chief Investment Officer and Director of PPFAS Mutual Fund. Even the best fund managers can get it wrong at times. Rajeev Thakkar, the Chief Investment Officer and Director of PPFAS Asset Management Company, recalls that in 2005, when Parag Parikh Financial & Advisory Services (PPFAS) had completed 25 years, he estimated that the company’s PMS scheme would manage around $1 billion in assets by 2030, or Rs 6,000 crore, given the exchange rate at the time.Now a mutual fund house, PPFAS Asset Management Company manages assets worth around Rs 38,000 crore. “We did not anticipate the pace at which we would grow,” smiles Thakkar, not regretting his ‘miscalculation.’Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn May 28, 10 years ago, Parag Parikh Flexi Cap, the fund house’s flagship fund and its first mutual fund scheme, opened up its doors to investors. With assets of over Rs 33,500 crore, the scheme is among the top 10 equity schemes in terms of assets, and among the top schemes in its category in performance. Parag Parikh Flexi Cap is also part of MC30, the basket of investment-worthy mutual fund schemes curated by Moneycontrol.In conversation with Moneycontrol’s Nikhil Walavalkar and Abhinav Kaul, Thakkar and Neil Parikh, Chief Executive Officer, PPFAS Mutual Fund, share nuggets from their journey, and how PPFAS Asset Management Company went on to become a formidable fund house — India’s 19th largest to be precise — with just four schemes. Edited excerpts follow:Also read | Looking out for lower interest rates on home loans? A good credit score helps
 
The news published on the date May 30, 2023 08:08 AM IST with headline  HDFC Short Term Debt Fund: An all-weather debt fund has delivered across rate cycles
 
The news published on the date May 26, 2023 06:06 PM IST with headline  SEBI bringing in Mutual Fund Light regulation to foster passive fund growth: Ananta Barua is: 
 Barua also highlighted other recent changes in the mutual fund industry initiated by SEBI SEBI is bringing in Mutual Fund Light regulations that seek to reduce compliance requirements for passive funds, said a whole-time member at the markets regulator.“To accommodate passive investments, such as index funds and ETFs, SEBI is introducing Mutual Fund Light regulations,” Ananta Barua said at the Mutual Fund Summit organised by ASSOCHAM.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“By easing the compliance burden, SEBI aims to foster the growth of passive investments in the Indian mutual fund industry,” he further explained.Barua also highlighted other recent changes in the mutual fund industry initiated by SEBI, including the establishment of an exhibition-only platform for direct plans, revision of requirements for sponsoring a mutual fund, and steps taken to increase transparency.Barua also stated that to further enhance liquidity in the debt market and address concentration risks, SEBI has implemented prudential regulations for open-ended mutual funds, especially debt funds. “These regulations include requirements for minimum liquidity buffers, restrictions on investments in a single company or sector, and self-testing to assess the impact of market movements on the Net Asset Value (NAV) of the fund, “ he added.
 
The news published on the date May 28, 2023 05:12 PM IST with headline  One year of interest rate hikes: Debt funds emerge a winner despite headwinds
 
The news published on the date May 27, 2023 06:04 PM IST with headline  Six charts that influenced SEBI’s mutual fund total expense ratio proposals is: 
 Sebi observed a large-scale reversal of trades in the illiquid stock options segment of BSE, leading to the creation of artificial volumes on the bourse. In what might be the biggest overhaul of the expense ratios that mutual funds have charged investors since 2018, the capital market regulator came out with a detailed set of fresh proposals on May 18.The proposals of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) aim, broadly, to make the total expense ratio (TER) more transparent and true-to-label (what you pay is what you get), bring about economies of scale (for retail investors, just as funds have brought it about for large investors through debt funds), bring in new investors, and discourage distributors and fund houses from churning investors from one scheme to another.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEvery proposal in the 40-page consultation paper is backed by research and findings from a study that SEBI initiated in December 2022. Here are the big numbers behind SEBI’s proposals that could make mutual funds cheaper and more transparent for investors.Has the expense ratio narrowed over the years? Only for a fewThe basic premise for expenses that funds charge is this: as a scheme grows in size, it should charge less. But have expense ratios really gone down for investors? The SEBI study showed that it hasn’t gone down as much <See: Weighted Average Total Expense Ratio>.
 
The news published on the date June 05, 2023 01:50 PM IST with headline  Passive investing gathers steam but retail investors get a meagre share is: 
 A passive fund is aimed at tracking the returns of the benchmark index. The contribution of passives to overall assets under management (AUM) has been consistently rising in India amid the massive underperformance by active funds. Despite this, the contribution of passive retail investors remains a fraction to the overall AUM, finds a new report.A passive fund is aimed at tracking the returns of the benchmark index, while active investing is a hands-on approach where the fund manager is fully involved in the investment process.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdData curated by Motilal Oswal Financial Services showed that passive investing in India has seen strong traction over the past five years, with the AUM of Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs) and Index Funds witnessing a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 38 percent and 129 percent, respectively, as compared to active equity schemes, which had a CAGR of 17 percent.Consequently, the share of passives (ETFs and Index funds) in the overall AUM increased to around 16.5 percent in March 2023, from about 6 percent in June 2019.The flows, however, are predominantly from corporates, including the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and High Net Worth Individuals (HNIs).
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2023 07:19 AM IST with headline  HDFC Defence Fund advances NFO closing date from June 2 to May 30 is: 
 Representative image HDFC Mutual Fund, on May 23, said that the closing date of the New Fund Offering (NFO) of its first defence sector fund in India, the HDFC Defence Fund (HDF) has been shifted to an earlier date from June 2 to May 30. The NFO was launched on May 19.Market sources told Moneycontrol that the number of stocks and investment options are limited. And hence, a reasonable inflow in its NFO period will suffice for the fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdVia the NFO, HDF aims to invest a minimum of 80 percent of the corpus in shares of defence and allied sector companies. Defence and allied sector stocks include (i) stocks forming part of certain eligible ‘basic industries’ based on AMFI industry classification including aerospace and defence, explosives, shipbuilding and allied services, as amended from time to time; or (ii) Stocks from any other defence and allied sectors as per the benchmark’s criteria; or (iii) stocks present on SIDM (Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers) list; and which obtain at least 10 percent of revenue from the defence segment.The scheme is being managed by Abhishek Poddar and the performance of the scheme will be benchmarked against Nifty India Defence Index TRI.ALSO READ: HDFC Defence Fund NFO: Watch out for the hottest defence stocks
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2023 11:36 AM IST with headline  Insurers selling mutual funds positive for both; can increase compliance burden is: 
 Debasish Panda, Chairman of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), favoured insurers selling mutual funds. The sale of Mutual Funds (MFs) by insurers will result in exposure to more investment options for investors, and potentially improve portfolio growth, but at the same time increase the compliance burden on intermediaries like distributors.In a recent interview, Debasish Panda, Chairman of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), favoured insurers selling mutual funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe regulator’s views were in line with a finance ministry proposal to consider allowing insurance companies to sell multiple financial products, including MFs.Advantage investorsExperts say consumers have a need for both life insurance as well as MFs in their portfolios.
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2023 08:11 AM IST with headline  Is your mutual fund justified for the expenses it charges you?
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2023 08:05 AM IST with headline  US Fed on brink of policy U-turn? Time may be right to think gold is: 
 The US Federal Reserve Headquarters As the US Federal Reserve attempts to undo its trillion-dollar pandemic-era excesses, it seems that it is trapped in a state of perpetual policy manipulation, alternating between stimulating and slowing down the economy to prevent an inflation spiral.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdQuick recapThe US economy has continuously been supported by money printing or quantitative easing and near-zero interest rates ever since the financial crisis of 2008-09. It went through its first round of easing from 2009 to 2010, which had to be followed by another round in 2010-11 to stimulate the economy.ALSO READ: Finmin's Rs 7-lakh relief to taxing foreign spends on credit cards can't resolve TCS crisis
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2023 12:15 PM IST with headline  Get paid only if you perform: SEBI’s plan throws MF industry into a tizzy is: 
 SEBI The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has proposed tentatively that fund houses’ management fees be linked to them outperforming benchmark indices, throwing the Mutual Fund (MF) industry into a tizzy.In an internal analysis, SEBI observed that just 26.67 percent of actively managed equity schemes had outperformed the benchmark index or gave similar returns over the five years ended February 28, 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat has worried SEBI, which put forth the proposal that perhaps fund houses should earn a management fee only if they outperform the benchmark.The performance-based fee model was proposed in a consultation paper put out by SEBI on March 18. It followed investor concerns over growing underperformance of MF schemes. Some investors have turned to passive schemes given their low cost, absence of fund manager risk and possibility of achieving near benchmark returns.Can the proposal be implemented?
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2023 04:49 PM IST with headline  SEBI wants mutual funds to catch front running, insider trading frauds is: 
 SEBI wants the CEO and chief compliance officer(CCO) to be made responsible for implementing survelillance systems, so that the top management cannot escape accountability even if someone below commits the crime. The capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has proposed setting up surveillance and internal control systems to catch frauds like front running and insider trading. At the minimum, SEBI has said that such a system should be able to catch front-running, insider trading, misselling of products, misuse of information by the asset management company (AMC), its employees, distributors, brokers dealers and so on and delay in execution of orders by their brokers and dealers.In recent times, SEBI has caught instances of front – running in some fund houses in the Rs 40 trillion India mutual funds (MF) industry. In February 2023, it barred its former chief dealer and 19 others in a front – running case that was caught at Axis MF. In October 2022, SEBI had issued an order wherein it found that the fund manager of the erstwhile Deutsche Mutual Fund and his parents had employed a scheme to 'front run' the orders of the fund house.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNow typically, front-running and insider trading frauds are detected by stock market exchanges that use their surveillance systems in conjunction with SEBI. But with the proliferation of fund houses and brokerage houses over the years, this puts pressure on SEBI as well as the exchanges to constantly monitor and fish out culprits. By putting onus on the fund houses to put in place such systems, it wants fund houses to be more proactive.Additionally, SEBI also wants the chief executive officer (CEO) and chief compliance officer(CCO) to be made responsible for implementing these systems, so that the top management cannot escape accountability even if someone below commits the crime.A whistleblower policy is also sought to have been set up by SEBI. Infact by law, all listed fund houses are expected to have a whistleblower policy. But SEBI has now proposed that all fund houses, irrespective of being listed or not, must have a “vigil mechanism/ whistle blower policy as applicable to listed AMCs, which specifically addresses market abuse practices.”
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2023 06:32 AM IST with headline  Five Sebi proposals may make mutual funds cheaper and more transparent is: 
 SEBI wants the CEO and chief compliance officer(CCO) to be made responsible for implementing survelillance systems, so that the top management cannot escape accountability even if someone below commits the crime. The capital markets regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), has proposed a drastic overhaul in the way mutual funds (MF) charge their expenses to customers. In a consultation paper issued recently, it simplified the definition of the total expense ratio (TER), yet made it much tighter by proposing that it include all peripheral expenses that fund houses were allowed to charge over and above the TER.This confirms an exclusive by Moneycontrol on January 28 that gave a glimpse of Sebi’s plans to cut down expense ratios.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere are the five big proposals and what they mean for you, the investor.TER must include brokerage expensesAt present, your equity fund can charge a maximum TER of 2 percent (for the first Rs 250 crore) to investors. Thereafter, the cost comes down to 1.75 percent for the next Rs 1,250 crore, 1.60 percent for Rs 1,500-3,000 crore, and so on. But over and above the TER, your fund can also charge you for other expenses.
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2023 08:34 AM IST with headline  Commissions to drop if SEBI’s proposal to cut MF expense ratio goes through, say distributors is: 
 AIFs nomenclature comes under SEBI's scanner The proposal to charge a uniform total expense ratio (TER) across schemes of a mutual fund house by the capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has made many distributors go back to the drawing board. The proposal is expected to hit the revenues of the distributor community. According to estimates by various distributors, commissions may fall by 25 to 50 basis points (bps).One basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLower commissions?The consultation paper issued on May 18, 2023, calls for all costs that are outside the expense ratio to be brought within its ambit. These costs include Goods and Services Tax payable by the asset management company (AMC) on the investment management fee, brokerage and transaction costs paid for transacting in securities, and the Securities Transaction Tax (STT).ALSO READ: How will tax on foreign tour spends on credit cards affect your holiday. The complete guide.
 
The news published on the date May 19, 2023 03:25 PM IST with headline  Sebi's proposed fee caps could slash AMC profits by Rs 1,400 crore is: 
 Representative image Capital market regulator Sebi's new proposal to improve transparency in mutual fund houses could be a major blow to asset management companies (AMCs)'s profits.AMCs are already under pressure from changes in taxation for debt mutual funds and the new proposal by the Securities and Exchange Board of India to bring a uniform total expense ratio (TER) will impact profits by 13 percent, to the tune of a Rs 1,400-crore loss, according to a Jefferies report released on May 19.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe TER is a percentage of a scheme's corpus that a mutual fund house charges towards expenses including administrative and management.During FY22, AMCs reported pre-tax profit of Rs 10,900 crore. This was after absorbing Rs 30,800 crore of expenses, which as per the new TER proposals will be capped at Rs 29,400 crore. According to Jefferies' calculation, this equates to under-recovery of Rs 1,400 crore or 13 percent of pre-tax profit and 4 basis points of average AUM."However, we expect that industry will look to discuss with SEBI and pass part of the impact on to value chain," Jefferies analysts Prakhar Sharma and Vinayak Agarwal said.
 
The news published on the date May 19, 2023 08:27 AM IST with headline  A surgical strike: HDFC MF launches defence-themed fund. Should you invest? is: 
 HDFC DEFENCE FUND REPRESENTATIVE HDFC Mutual Fund has launched the New Fund Offering (NFO) of the first defence sector fund in India, the HDFC Defence Fund (HDF). The NFO opens on May 19, 2023. At a time when geopolitical tensions are rising in many parts of the world, the need to invest in defence capabilities is being increasingly felt. No wonder defence-focused businesses are in demand and a fund around it should hog some investor attention.What is on offer?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHDF aims to invest a minimum of 80 percent of the corpus in shares of defence and allied sector companies. Defence and allied sector stocks include (i) stocks forming part of certain eligible ‘basic industries’ based on AMFI Industry classification including aerospace and defence, explosives, shipbuilding and allied services, as amended from time to time; or (ii) Stocks from any other defence and allied sectors as per the benchmark’s criteria; or (iii) stocks present on SIDM (Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers) list; and which obtain at least 10 percent of revenue from the defence segment.The scheme will be managed by Abhishek Poddar and the performance of the scheme will be benchmarked against Nifty India Defence Index TRI.ALSO READ: Large, mid or smallcap? Find out which fund suits you the best
 
The news published on the date May 27, 2023 10:31 AM IST with headline  HDFC Defence Fund NFO: Watch out for these high-risk, high-return defence stocks
 
The news published on the date May 18, 2023 11:10 AM IST with headline  Large, mid or smallcap? Find out which fund suits you the best is: 
 Mutual funds While there are several equity fund categories, investors often look at their mutual fund (MF) portfolio from the lens of marketcap. That is, which market (cap) segment has how much exposure in their portfolios.The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has very clearly defined three market-cap segments and stocks.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad• Largecap: Stocks ranked 1-100 by market capitalisation• Midcap: Stocks ranked 101-250 by marketcap• Smallcap: Stocks ranked 251 onwards by marketcapCompanies in different market segments (and having different sizes) tend to have different growth prospects and return potential. Given the higher risks, smallcaps also tend to have a higher return potential (but not a guarantee). Also, by nature, largecaps tend to be much less volatile than mid and small caps. Smallcaps are the most volatile.Now, let us look at the actual question.
 
The news published on the date May 18, 2023 12:14 PM IST with headline  Does the large size of SBI Small Cap Fund bother its fund manager, R Srinivasan? is: 
 R Srinivasan, CIO-Equity, SBI MF How much is big enough? For SBI MF, a corpus of Rs 16,089 crore for a small-cap fund might sound big, but that hasn’t nudged the fund house to shut the gates totally. It has left the door slightly ajar. At present, you can only invest up to Rs 25,000 per PAN (Permanent Account Number) on new SIPs (systematic investment plan) in this scheme. R Srinivasan is the Chief Investment Officer -Equity at SBI Mutual Fund, and is known for his expertise in the small cap stock space. He is also the manager of SBI Small Cap Fund.This scheme has generated a 10-year return (CAGR) of 26 percent; second-highest in its category. That has likely helped the scheme attract more investors, too.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith an AUM of Rs 16,089 crore as of April 30, 2023, SBI Small Cap Fund is the second largest in its category. That huge corpus is not an ideal place for a small-cap fund to be in. This has led SBI Mutual Fund to impose a cap.So what lies next? In February 2021, R. Srinivasan was appointed as Chief Investment Officer (CIO) - Equity at SBI MF after Navneet Munot- the fund house’s erstwhile CIO- left the fund house to join HDFC MF, as its chief executive officer.Srinivasan spoke to Moneycontrol’s Maulik Madhu on his investment style, what returns to expect from his small-cap fund, why he’s bullish on financial services and more. Edited excerpts:
 
The news published on the date May 18, 2023 08:06 AM IST with headline  Despite correction, these mid- & small-cap technology stocks got picked by mutual funds
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2023 07:40 AM IST with headline  Where to invest Rs 10 lakh today? ICICI Pru MF’s Anish Tawakley recommends 2 sectors and MF categories is: 
 Anish Tawakley, Deputy CIO (Equity) and Head of Research, ICICI Prudential AMC Having completed more than seven years at ICICI Prudential Asset Management Co Ltd, India’s second-largest fund house with assets worth nearly Rs 5 trillion or Rs 5 lakh crore, Anish Tawakley, Deputy Chief Investment Officer (CIO) - Equity, and Head of Research, has a common sense approach to fund management. “I am not necessarily looking to hit a six on every ball, but I am very concerned that I should not be clean bowled,” he says, describing his management style.Tawakley believes it’s better to be in the second quartile consistently which will deliver good returns over the long term, compared to being obsessed with trying to be in the top quartile.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe is of the opinion that given market valuations in the neutral zone and the likelihood of healthy earnings growth going forward, one should expect moderate to reasonable returns from the markets.Tawakley manages assets worth Rs 48,205 crore under five mutual fund (MF) schemes, including business cycle, focused equity, and manufacturing funds. Notably, the biggest fund, which he has been managing for the past five years, ICICI Pru Bluechip Fund (Rs 35,877 crore), has completed 15 years this month.In an interview with Moneycontrol, Tawakley discussed his investment strategy, sectors where he is finding value, key risks the Indian economy faces and whether he would look to add loss-making start-ups to his newly-launched innovation fund. Edited excerpts:
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2023 07:08 AM IST with headline  Volatility, tax rule tweaks send investors rushing for SIPs, bank FDs to park their money is: 
 Representative image Changes in taxation of non-equity funds, equity markets nearing a new high and interest rates at a crucial juncture make investing difficult. Volatility in mutual fund inflows is an indication of the same. Moneycontrol spoke with some of the leading distributors to understand investor sentiment and uncovered some interesting trends.Mutual funds are a mixed bagStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMonthly data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed net inflows in equity funds had dropped to Rs 6,480 crore in April compared to Rs 20,534 crore in March, a fall of 68 percent. Debt funds saw inflows of Rs 1.06 lakh crore in April compared to an outflow of Rs 56,884 crore in the prior month. Most experts acknowledge that the March-end outflow in debt funds is attributable to the typical quarter-end phenomenon where most corporates pull out money from debt funds to pay bills and taxes and spruce up bank balances.Inflows in equity mutual funds, however, is an interesting game. “Broad equity market indices nearing all-time high, relative uncertainty in the financial system due to diverse views on interest rates both globally and locally, and drop in new fund offers and collections are some of the reasons why equity fund inflows have come down,” says Nirav Karkera, head, research, Fisdom, a mutual fund distribution platform.ALSO READ: Are your equity funds investing in the same stocks?
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2023 05:25 PM IST with headline  Are your equity funds investing in the same stocks? is: 
 Equity mutual fund schemes, especially in the large and flexi cap diversified category, have several overlaps in terms of individual stocks. Conventional wisdom says that in order to achieve meaningful diversification, a portfolio of around 7-12 Mutual Funds (MF) is good enough. The flipside is that you may just find a lot of similar stocks across all your MF schemes.A typical large cap or flexi cap fund is seen holding anywhere between 35 and 50 stocks, a mid-cap fund could have 60 or more stocks and it’s not uncommon to find 80-100 or more stocks in a small cap fund. That is diversification.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNow, so long as you invest in just one MF scheme, you get some diversification. A single fund manager makes changes and keeps an eye on the overall portfolio performance. Things start to get muddy when you add new funds to your existing list in the hope of getting a better portfolio performance. This may not work out as expected. Equity mutual fund schemes, especially in the large and flexi cap diversified category, have several overlaps in terms of individual stocks.For example, HDFC Bank Ltd is a very popular holding across mutual fund schemes. We analysed the top 15 equity diversified mutual fund schemes (ranked by Assets Under Management, or AUM) and found this stock is present in 12 of the 15 portfolios. In 10 of those, it was among the top 5 holdings. Among the three where it is not present, one of the portfolios has Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited Ltd as the top holding; the two companies are in the middle of a merger.The other common top holdings among these 15 funds were ICICI Bank, Infosys, Reliance Industries, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Larsen & Toubro Ltd, ITC Ltd, State Bank of India and Bharti Airtel. If not in the top five, then you will surely find these names in the top 10 holdings (see table).
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2023 07:48 PM IST with headline  Ultra short duration funds: Riding rising rates
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2023 09:19 AM IST with headline  Bajaj Finance FD offers high interest rates, but is it still a good choice? is: 
 Bajaj Finance is offering its highest rate of 8.35 per cent on its 44-month deposit. Last week, Bajaj Finance, a non-banking finance company (NBFC), raised its fixed deposit interest rates, yet again. After the latest hike, the NBFC is offering its highest rate of 8.35 per cent per annum on its 44-month deposit (cumulative and non-cumulative with annual interest pay-outs). Senior citizens get an additional 0.25 percent, that is 8.60 percent per annum on these deposits.So, should you go for these fixed deposits? Their relatively higher interest rates along with high credit rating makes them a good choice. For shorter tenures, though, there are other higher-rate options. Also, remember, NBFC deposits are not at par with bank deposits on the safety front and are therefore, suitable only for those with some risk appetite. For senior citizens, the 5-year Senior Citizens Savings Scheme (SCSS) offering 8.2 percent is an equally attractive no-risk option.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHigher rates for non-senior citizensWhat’s attractive about the Bajaj Finance deposits is that one, they enjoy a AAA rating (Triple A), which indicates a high degree of safety and low risk of default, and two, the rates on them are higher than that on deposits from most other similarly-rated NBFCs. The minimum deposit amount is Rs 15,000. “With a spike in interest rates and taxation at par with debt mutual funds, corporate fixed deposits, especially from well-managed companies with strong balance sheets, such as Bajaj Finance, are a great bet,” says Santosh Joseph, Founder of Germinate Investor Services.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2023 06:15 PM IST with headline  Why debt mutual funds are still relevant and investment-worthy is: 
 Mutual funds A lot has been written about gains on debt mutual fund (MF) units bought on or after April 1, 2023, becoming taxable at the slab rate, irrespective of the holding period. Though debt funds lose their concessional tax rate of 20 percent and indexation benefit for gains on investments sold after holding three years, there is still a strong case for investing in debt funds.Let us understand a few important nuances which indicate that these funds are still relevant and can be considered for investments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLiquidityAmong the various benefits debt funds bring to the table, liquidity is the most important. Indian debt markets are not liquid. Bid and ask prices of securities have wide spreads. Lot sizes in the secondary market are high. Many securities are listed on stock exchanges, but many times investors find it difficult to transact near the fair value of a security, due to paucity of volumes. This challenge can be best handled by investing in debt MFs, which assure the payout of sale proceeds of units on T+3 working days.To put it simply, an investor is paid redemption proceeds at net asset value (NAV) immediately.ALSO READ: Caveat Emptor: Deduct TDS on property purchases, or else…
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2023 01:30 PM IST with headline  Small-cap mutual funds love these sectors for higher returns
 
The news published on the date May 11, 2023 05:46 PM IST with headline  Equity inflows crash 70% to Rs 6,480 crore in April, stay in positive zone for 26 straight months is: 
 BSE benchmark Sensex had risen 3.35 percent in April, while NSE headline index Nifty gained 4.06 percent during the month. Net inflows into open-ended equity mutual funds slumped 68.44 percent to Rs 6,480.29 crore in April over the previous month given volatile markets and investors taking some money off the table to take advantage of the rally, data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed.Despite the fall, equity fund inflows have remained in the positive zone for 26 straight months, starting with March 2021.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn March 2023, net inflows into equity funds had jumped 31 percent to Rs 20,534.21 crore month-on-month (MOM), a one-year high then. February net equity inflows had stood at Rs 15,685.57 crore.“The dip in net flows could be attributed to a sharp drop in gross purchases MOM at -34 percent and a steady rise in redemptions at 9 percent MOM. The rise in valuations could have made investors stay away from fresh investments or take off some money to take advantage of the rally,” said Sriram BKR, Senior Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.Also read | Planning to sell your property? Know your responsibilities as a seller
 
The news published on the date May 11, 2023 08:01 AM IST with headline  Long-term wealth creation | Here are the small-cap stocks that children-oriented mutual funds love to hold
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2023 04:17 PM IST with headline  Some mutual fund houses cut down expense ratio on Nifty 50 ETFs to benefit passive investors is: 
 Mutual Funds Amid growing investors' interest in passive funds, some mutual fund houses have curtailed the expense ratio on Nifty 50 exchange traded funds (ETFs), a move that will bring down tracking error and lead to higher returns for passive investors.ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund on Wednesday cut down the expense ratio on its Nifty 50 ETF scheme from 0.05 per cent to 0.0279 per cent, making it the lowest total expense ratio (TER) for a Nifty 50 ETF among its peers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn market parlance, the total expense ratio or TER is the total expenses charged by the scheme.This came after Nippon India Mutual Fund last month reduced the expense ratio on its ETF Nifty 50 BeES to 0.037 per cent. In addition, it cut down the TER on its ETF S&P BSE Sensex scheme too.The other notable names in the category consists of SBI Nifty 50 ETF, UTI Nifty 50 ETF and Nippon India ETF Nifty 50 BeES have an expense ratio of 0.07 per cent, 0.06 per cent and 0.04 per cent respectively.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2023 09:37 AM IST with headline  How is MF expense ratio calculated?
 
The news published on the date May 11, 2023 12:31 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds with performance fees: Mixed experience in global markets, complexities hinder wider adoption by investors is: 
 Globally, funds have followed either the symmetrical or the asymmetrical performance fee model. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is considering introducing a performance-based fee model for mutual funds (MFs) in India. The idea is to ensure that fund managers have more skin in the game. The idea of performance fees for MFs is not novel ― there are MFs in the US, the UK and other European countries, as well as in Asia and Australia that do offer such a fee model, but these are few and far between. Explaining why that is so, Feroze Azeez, Deputy Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Anand Rathi Wealth, says, “Globally, it’s not a big focus area, as it’s not easy for companies to operate mutual funds in this (performance-based fees) set-up. The revenue is uncertain whereas the costs are certain.”Apart from that, from the investors' perspective, the complexity of how the performance fee is calculated may deter investors from opting for it. Note that the performance fee model may be one option (in addition to a fixed fee option) and not the only one to be offered to investors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTalking about the UK market, Munish Randev, Founder & CEO, Cervin Family Office, says that performance-based fee model has not been popular for the mainstream MFs meant for retail investors. It is usually the higher-risk, concentrated portfolio kind of MF schemes that tend to offer this fee model.In a fixed-fee model, an asset management company (AMC) charges investors a certain management fee (fixed percentage) for managing their money ― this is irrespective of the fund performance. Under a performance-based fee model, in addition to the fixed percentage fee (which is set at a lower level), there is also a performance fee. This is charged as a certain percentage of the additional return over the fund benchmark over a specific period of time.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2023 12:19 PM IST with headline  Got Rs 10 lakh to invest? Kotak AMC’s Harish Krishnan shares strategy for retail investors is: 
 Harish Krishnan, Senior VP & Fund Manager (Equity), Kotak Mahindra AMC Harish Krishnan, Senior VP & Fund Manager (Equity), Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company (AMC), manages close to Rs 22,900 crore in investor money across five funds, including the AMC’s balanced advantage fund. The fund manager is banking on increased capex (capital expenditure) by Indian companies to double corporate India’s earnings over the next 6-7 years.“The capex companies are doing today will be the source of cash flows and profits tomorrow. And, we are clearly seeing the large caps doing the heavy lifting there,” says Krishnan. Given the current valuations, he doesn’t expect the return dispersion between small and mid-caps, and large caps, to be markedly very different.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKrishnan spoke to Moneycontrol’s Maulik Madhu on his outlook for the Indian equity market, his stock-picking strategy, how retail investors should deploy a lumpsum of Rs 10 lakh, and more. Edited excerpts.What’s your outlook for the Indian market? What are some key factors that investors must watch out for this year?There is going to be a reasonable amount of volatility in the runup to the 2024 elections. Investors generally want a stable government, and possibly the market will come to some collective view 3-4 months before the actual event. Not that we can do anything about the volatility but that provides an overall backdrop.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2023 07:12 AM IST with headline  Fear and greed: Two behavioural traits that lead to wrong investments is: 
 The role of human behaviour in successful investing cannot be overstated. Here’s an interesting fact: the 10-year “published” returns of systematic investment plans of most small cap mutual funds is a mind-bending 16-18-plus percent per annum today.Putting this in perspective: a monthly SIP of Rs 10,000 over the past decade would be worth more than Rs 30 lakh today, translating to a profit of Rs 18 lakh on an investment of Rs 12 lakh – a staggering absolute return of over 150 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd yet, the number of investors who earn such fantastic returns are few and far between. Why? Because between “published returns” and “actual returns” lies the big bad “behaviour gap,” which even seasoned investors are not immune to and is a virtual certainty for new investors who face volatility for the first time. And what could be more volatile (and rewarding) than investing in small caps?We will circle back to the behaviour gap and its devastating effects later. First, let’s start with an interesting checklist.Also See | Curated list of investment-worthy mutual fund schemes
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2023 07:38 PM IST with headline  Will performance-linked fees help mutual fund investors? is: 
 There are fears that this system might encourage short-term focus for immediate gains, compromising long-term growth. The Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) proposal to allow mutual funds to charge higher fees if a scheme beats the benchmark consistently will certainly benefit fund houses, but experts are unsure whether this move will be beneficial for retail investors or not.Mutual Funds in India charge certain operating expenses for managing a mutual fund (MF) scheme, such as sales/marketing expenses, administrative expenses, etc., as a percentage of the fund’s total assets.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis is referred to as the total expense ratio.While equity funds can charge up to 2.25 percent, non-equity schemes can charge up to 2 percent.SEBI is now contemplating a fundamental change in this approach, wherein it is looking at allowing mutual funds to charge performance-based fees for managing funds.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2023 07:50 AM IST with headline  Roaring multi-asset mutual funds bet on these midcap stocks. Do you own any?
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2023 07:47 AM IST with headline  Got Rs 10 lakh to invest? Stick to short-term debt funds for near-term needs; quality equity funds via STP for long term: Girish Ganaraj is: 
 Girish Ganaraj, Co-founder, Finwise Personal Finance Solutions The initial months of the new financial year are a good time to review your investment portfolio. As our equity markets turn volatile, investors panic and consider exiting. Amid this, a steady rise of influencers on social media doling out financial and investment advice is a concern for the regulator and is adding to investor woes, says Girish Ganaraj co-founder of Finwise Personal Finance Solutions, which was set up in 2013.In a conversation with Moneycontrol, he shares his views on investing in the volatile markets with the investors and diversifying the portfolio. He also cautions investors following social media influencers to invest in the equity market.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEdited excerpts:What's your advice to existing investors in the current market volatility?Now, it is increasingly an interconnected world. So a global event that may not even have a material impact on our Indian economy will still impact equity markets and cause volatility. Hence, investors need to accept that volatility is a way of life. It may be a good idea to look at short-term volatility as the cost of getting good long-term results in investing.
 
The news published on the date May 04, 2023 08:26 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds see 85 lakh new millennial investors in FY19-FY23 on awareness campaign, digital access is: 
 1.57 crore new investors joined the industry between 2018-19 and 2022-23, as per the report released by mutual fund transfer agency Mutual fund industry witnessed an influx of 84.8 lakh new millennial investors in the last five financial years (FY19- FY23), cornering 54 per cent share of the new investor base, on the back of massive awareness campaigns, conducive market conditions and digital access, according to a report by CAMS.Apart from these factors, simplified KYC and concerted intermediation and advisory too encouraged new millennials to invest in mutual funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOverall, 1.57 crore new investors joined the industry between 2018-19 and 2022-23, as per the report released by mutual fund transfer agency Computer Age Management Services (CAMS) on Thursday pointed out.According to the report, millennials have been the dominant segment among the new investors who entered mutual funds in the last five years with their share percentage peaking to 57 per cent in FY20."Despite the market volatility and uncertainty through FY23, investors' confidence to enter mutual funds remained sound and millennials continued to make mutual funds their choice of investment for wealth creation," the report noted.
 
The news published on the date May 04, 2023 02:22 PM IST with headline  How do MNC mutual funds work?
 
The news published on the date May 04, 2023 11:39 AM IST with headline  In 7 charts: How long-term holding mitigates interest-rate risk and ensures higher returns in debt funds
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2023 05:45 PM IST with headline  WhiteOak Capital MF launches Multi-Asset Allocation Fund. Should you invest? is: 
 The NFO of WhiteOak Capital Multi Asset Allocation Fund opened on May 3 and will close on May 10. WhiteOak Capital Mutual Fund has launched New Fund Offering (NFO), an open-ended Multi Asset Allocation scheme that will invest in equities, debt and gold or silver instruments.Multi Asset Allocation Funds invest in at least three asset classes with a minimum allocation of at least 10 percent to each asset class.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe NFO of WhiteOak Capital Multi Asset Allocation Fund opened on May 3 and will close on May 10.What’s on offer?The main rationale behind the scheme is that different asset classes tend to perform differently depending on economic cycles, global scenarios, and geo-political events.
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2023 12:08 PM IST with headline  Gold or fixed income: Which is better to help diversify your portfolio? is: 
 Diversification across asset classes It's fun to try new food recipes sometimes, but you would agree with me that they can’t beat your mom’s time-tested classics. For instance, fusion foods like cheese-stuffed parathas are definitely delicious, but that’s not something you can eat every day for breakfast, unlike the simple yet delectable aloo paratha.A similar logic seems to apply to Indian investment portfolios. Most hybrid portfolios today, which are designed to benefit from a diversification strategy are allocated between equities and debt, leaving out the age-old investment asset class of gold. Like in other areas of life, we seem to be aping the West in the area of investing too.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGold is…because rupee keeping depreciatingIf one stops to reflect as to why western portfolios don’t have active allocations to gold, one realises that, unlike in India, they don’t have secularly depreciating currencies that continue to deplete their purchasing power. And that’s the precise economic rationale for why gold has been a prominent part of our culture historically, in addition to being a lender of the last resort. Currency depreciation has worked in our favor when it comes to returns from gold. Debt, on the other hand, has been a reasonable diversifier to equities for the West, as it is comparatively less sensitive to market movements and less likely to incur losses, which highlights debt’s role more from a stability perspective and less from a diversifying downside risk perspective. Also, this argument recently got tested with higher interest rates spelling trouble for both these asset classes, making them move in tandem.If you check with your parents or grandparents, you will learn that gold was always a part of their investment plan, and it still is. As per a March 2022 report by Jefferies, 15 percent of total Indian household assets is invested in gold. Given its many benefits ― as a portfolio diversifier, preserver of purchasing power, and source of liquidity ― it's fair to say that Indians have got it right.
 
The news published on the date May 04, 2023 11:03 AM IST with headline  SIPs work for debt funds, too. And, they beat bank FDs. Here’s the proof
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2023 11:27 AM IST with headline  Six changes in the financial landscape you need to take note of this May is: 
 The deadline for choosing the higher pension option is May 3. April 2023 was a busy month, being the beginning of the financial year when many financial rules and regulations came into force.Its successor, May, should be a relatively calmer month. Yet, it will usher in several changes that can affect your moneybox.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRead on to know the key money changes you ought to be aware of this month and how it will affect your purse.May 3 is the last date to opt for higher pension The deadline for choosing the higher pension option is May 3. You will have to take a call on whether you want to opt for a higher pension on your actual salary or not.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2023 06:49 AM IST with headline  Largecap & flexicap funds: Do you need one, or both, in your portfolio? is: 
 With flexicap funds, one can diversify across companies with different market capitalisations. The two dominant categories of equity funds are largecap funds and flexicap funds. Most investor portfolios have at least one scheme from either category.But given the similarities in how, at times, both are managed by the same fund manager (more about similarities in a bit), is there really a case for having schemes from both categories in your portfolio? Or is it enough to have funds from just one category?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut first, let’s see what sets the two categories apart.Largecap funds vs. Flexicap funds Largecap funds invest a minimum of 80 percent of its corpus in largecap stocks (i.e., in the top 100 listed stocks). So, if someone wants to have equity exposure only to a few of the largest Indian companies, investing in largecap funds would serve the purpose.
 
The news published on the date April 28, 2023 04:07 PM IST with headline  AMFI asks fund houses to stop training programmes based on SIP targets for distributors is: 
 SEBI in 2018 had said that training programmes should not be misused for providing any reward or non-cash incentives to mutual fund distributors. Hours after Moneycontrol reached out to it for a response on the so-called ‘training programmes’ being offered by certain asset management companies (AMCs) to their distributors, the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), the trade body representing the Rs 40 lakh crore Indian mutual fund industry, sent an email to its members asking them to desist from offering such programmes.The training, which is alleged to have been imparted in exotic locales such as Andaman and Nicobar Islands, is offered by fund houses to mutual fund distributors (MFDs) who achieve certain systematic investment plan (SIP) targets.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe AMCs are barred from offering their distributors rewards such as holidays in exotic locales, a practice that was prevalent earlier until market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) cracked down on it.AMFI declined to comment on the matter.Moneycontrol had earlier learned that mutual fund houses such as Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, Tata Mutual Fund, WhiteOak Capital Mutual Fund and DSP Mutual Fund, had launched these training programmes for their distributors.
 
The news published on the date April 28, 2023 10:29 AM IST with headline  UTI Nifty500 Value 50 Index Fund: A review is: 
 NFO UTI Nifty500 Value50 index fund Value investing has done well in the volatile environment after the stock markets recorded a low in March 2020. UTI Mutual Fund has launched the new fund offer (NFO) of UTI Nifty500 Value 50 Index Fund (UV50). This is the first broad-based value index fund. Should you invest?What is on offer?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUV50 aims to provide returns in line with that offered by the underlying index – Nifty 500 Value 50 index. The underlying index comprises 50 stocks that are selected from a universe of stocks present in Nifty500. These stocks are picked based on their value score and free-float market capitalisation. The value score of these stocks is computed giving equal weight to valuation parameters such as earnings yield (reverse of price-to-earnings ratio) , price-to-book ratio, sales-to-price ratio and dividend yield. The weight of each stock is capped at a lower of 5 percent or three times the weight of the stock in the index based only on free market capitalisation. The index is rebalanced twice a year.What works?Sharwan Goyal, Fund Manager and Head – Passive, Arbitrage and Quant Strategies, UTI AMC says, “UV50 aims to offer a diversified portfolio of attractively valued companies on the basis of defined valuation parameters, from a broad universe of Nifty 500 stocks.”
 
The news published on the date April 27, 2023 08:10 AM IST with headline  Dynamic bond funds: At a crossroads is: 
 High or Low Duration: Which one will reward Fund managers of several dynamic bond funds (DBF) are busy raising the duration of their schemes in anticipation of rate cuts soon. However, a few are still not going all out for high duration portfolio strategy. Here is what you should know while investing in a DBF.The duration gameStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDuration measures how long it would take, in years, for an investor to be repaid a bond’s price by the bond’s total cash flows. Duration can also measure the sensitivity of a bond’s or fixed-income portfolio’s price to changes in interest rates. When interest rates fall, the higher a bond’s duration, the more its price will rise.Since DBFs allow maximum flexibility to the debt fund managers as they can decide on both the credit quality and the duration of the portfolio, these schemes can be actively managed depending on the view of the fund managers. Some fund managers actively change the duration of the scheme, whereas a few more choose less churn.Also, there are schemes such as Nippon Dynamic Bond Fund and Axis Dynamic Bond Fund which offer roll-down strategy. The roll-down strategy calls for investing in a basket of bonds that mature around a particular moment of time due to relative attractiveness at the time of investment and holding on to it till the maturity of those bonds. Even the interest receipts are invested accordingly.
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2023 08:42 AM IST with headline  In your 30s and not yet invested in mutual funds? Here’s how to make a start is: 
 Don't start investing in MFs from day one. There are a few things to be done first. I recently met a younger cousin who had turned 30 and got married a year back. He told me that while he did save some money using traditional fixed income options, he had never invested in mutual funds (MFs). This is usually the case with many of us who start investing for the first time. And this is especially true for people in their 30s, 40s and even the 50s. These generations of investors weren’t largely exposed or encouraged to invest in MFs.Life insurance policies usually tend to become our first investment, thanks to the friendly neighborhood insurance agent, who is sometimes even our family member. Meanwhile, my cousin was also one of those who had not invested in MFs so far. And now, he wanted to start. He had a surplus of Rs 50,000 per month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read: Four classic insurance traps you must avoidTo be sure, the other fixed income investments we’re talking about here are Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF), Public Provident Fund (PPF) and bank fixed deposits (FDs). I asked him why he suddenly got interested in MFs. He told me that he had seen his colleagues in office invest in equity MFs mutual funds for the last few years and they had done reasonably well. So, this got him interested.Also see: MC30 List of top funds
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2023 06:58 AM IST with headline  Former Sebi chief UK Sinha joins Nippon MF as independent director, board chairman is: 
 UK Sinha has also been the Chairman and Managing Director of UTI Asset Management and Chairman of the Association of Mutual Funds in India. Nippon India Life Asset Management (NAM India) on April 25 announced the appointment of UK Sinha as an Independent Director and Chairman of the Board with effect from May 1.Sinha, a 1976 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of Bihar cadre, during his three decades plus of experience has held several responsible government positions in India, including Joint Secretary (Banking) and Joint Secretary (Capital Markets) in the Ministry of Finance and Chairman of the Working Group on Foreign Investment in India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSinha was chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) from February 18, 2011 to March 1, 2017. He was succeeded by Ajay Tyagi.Also read | Switching jobs? 6 tasks that require your immediate attentionHe has also been the Chairman and Managing Director of UTI Asset Management and Chairman of the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI).
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2023 09:45 AM IST with headline  In your early 50s and nearing retirement? These 2 MC30 schemes can take you there is: 
 MC30 helps you to build your retirement corpus MC30, a curated basket of 30 investment-worthy mutual funds (MFs), selects its schemes across asset classes. MC30 provides a complete solution for the investment community.The schemes in the MC30 basket cater to all types of investors -- with varying risk profiles, time horizons and financial goals. For instance, an investor with a high-risk profile can select equity schemes from the list to meet his/her long-term goals. Similarly, a conservative investor can select debt schemes from the basket to ensure stability while generating FD-beating returns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMC30 offers an end-to-end solution to achieve your retirement goals, too. The schemes within the MC30 basket are suitable to invest not only during the accumulation phase but for the retirement period as well.See here: The complete MC30 basket of mutual fund schemesSafeguard the nest egg
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2023 10:13 AM IST with headline  Planning your child's education abroad? Residency via investment can help is: 
 The EB-5 visa is one of the most sought-after residency-by-investment programmes among Indians for obvious reasons. Getting your child into a world-class university can be very competitive, as the number of students wanting an international education continues to grow. Per a recent government estimate, over 7.7 lakh Indian students headed abroad in 2022 — a six-year high.In the post-Covid world, more people are looking at geographical diversification as a way to secure the future for the next generation. Given this, there is a significant increase in enquiries from affluent Indian families looking to access premium international education opportunities for their children via investment migration.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSimply put, investment migration, alternative residency, or residency by investment is a way to immigrate to another country.Some Indians who lost their jobs in the mass IT layoffs in the US are also looking at investment migration programmes to secure their stay.Up until a few years ago, India’s investment migration market was largely geared towards the US EB-5 (visa by investment) program. Now, the residence-by-investment migration programmes of Malta, Portugal, Greece, and other European countries are gaining traction.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2023 11:10 AM IST with headline  Market CAP below Rs 200 crore, but these nanocap multibaggers remain PMS darlings
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2023 08:56 AM IST with headline  Akshaya Tritiya 2023: Should you invest in gold and silver fund of funds? is: 
 Gold and silver prices After a volatile year, many investors have reinforced their convictions in owning gold in their portfolios. Silver, the poor man’s gold, is also on the minds of many given the fast and furious moves it has shown in the last few months. Mutual funds are offering products that give exposure to both these precious metals, which can be considered by investors this Akshaya Tritiya.What is on offer?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere are two schemes available that are investing in a mix of gold and silver - Edelweiss Gold & Silver ETF Fund of Fund (EGS) and Motilal Oswal Gold and Silver ETFs Fund of Funds (MGS). While the EGS has been maintaining an almost equal allocation to both gold and silver, the MGS has started with a 70 percent allocation to gold and the rest to silver. EGS aims to keep rebalancing the allocation to gold and silver each time allocation to one of the metals touches 55 percent, MGS aims to intervene only when allocation to one of the two metals crosses 90 percent, by bringing it back to 90 percent on a quarterly basis.Does a mixed approach work?
 
The news published on the date April 20, 2023 11:44 AM IST with headline  Emkay Global gets Sebi's in-principle approval for mutual fund business is: 
 In a regulatory notification, Emkay Global Financial Services said the Securities and Exchange Board of India had granted approval on March 31. Emkay Global Financial Services has joined the likes of Angel One, Zerodha Broking and Helios Capital Management in getting an in-principle approval from the capital markets regulator to launch mutual fund business in India.In a regulatory notification, Emkay Global Financial Services said the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) had given the go-ahead on March 31.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBajaj Finserv, a diversified financial services group, had in March received the final registration from Sebi to kick off its mutual fund operations under Bajaj Finserv Mutual Fund.Before Emkay Global, Angel One (formerly known as Angel Broking) had received the in-principle approval for sponsoring a mutual fund in February.Nithin Kamath-led Zerodha Broking, Samir Arora-founded Helios Capital Management, and Kenneth Andrade’s Old Bridge Capital Management are waiting for their final mutual fund licences.
 
The news published on the date April 20, 2023 09:34 AM IST with headline  Why MC30 has only 2 tax-saving funds in its basket? is: 
 Tax saving MC30, a curated basket of 30 investment-worthy mutual funds, makes your investment journey easy and simpler. It presents just 30 schemes culled out from more than 1,000 schemes across asset classes. These schemes found their places in MC30 after rigorous risk-return tests. All you need to do is to pick a few from this crisp list, based on your risk appetite and goal horizon.Though the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has 39 categories for mutual funds, MC30 shortlists its candidates from just 11 categories. Equity Linked Saving Schemes (ELSS) is one of them, having its prominent place in the MC30 basket.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdELSS schemes are mutual fund schemes investing predominantly in equity assets. They come with a mandatory lock-in period of three years.See here: The complete MC30 basket of mutual fund schemesTax benefit under section 80C
 
The news published on the date April 20, 2023 08:13 AM IST with headline  MC Explains | The difference between debt duration fund and duration call. Choose wisely is: 
 Debt Mutual Funds are attractive In the column on April 6 we looked at whether the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) rate hike cycle was coming to an end. In this backdrop, there are views in sections of the market that there would be a policy rate easing cycle ahead. It is an intellectual debate whether it is an RBI rate pause phase now or if rate cuts can be expected ahead. It depends on multiple variables, the major one being inflation.What we will discuss today is the related concepts of duration funds and duration call, if at all we expect rate cuts.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHow interest rate movements impact your debt fundsIn fixed-income investments, the term duration has a different connotation from the general understanding of the word.The variability of the price of a bond or the NAV of a bond fund in response to interest changes in the market is proportional to the duration of the bond / bond fund. The longer the maturity / duration of the bond / bond fund, the higher the variability and vice versa. This variability works both ways. When interest rates are coming down and bond prices are moving up, a longer-duration bond benefits more than a shorter-duration one, for the same extent of market movement. On the other hand, when interest rates are going up and bond prices are coming down, the adverse impact is more on longer-duration bonds.
 
The news published on the date April 19, 2023 12:16 PM IST with headline  How many tax saving schemes do you need? is: 
 Mutual Funds-ELSS “Which is the best ELSS scheme to invest in this year?” That’s the question thrust at many financial planners and distributors as each calendar year begins and the financial year winds down. ELSS stands for Equity-Linked Saving Schemes. These tax-saving mutual fund (MF) schemes get you income-tax deduction under Section 80C, up to a maximum limit of Rs 1.5 lakh.As a result, each year, a new ELSS scheme gets added to portfolios. Over the years, this leads to the buildup of a plethora of these tax-saving schemes in many equity mutual fund portfolios, making it necessary to consolidate them.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut if the main objective is to save taxes, the question is: just how many tax-saving schemes do you need?ELSS: The tax saverFor beginners, ELSS competes against other instruments such as the public provident fund, employees’ provident fund, children’s tuition fee, home loan repayment, life insurance premium, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana and National Savings Certificate, which are also eligible for a deduction under section 80C.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2023 01:06 PM IST with headline  Six fixed income products for you in this high interest rate scenario
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2023 08:35 AM IST with headline  Risk and reward: Why Nifty Next 50 index funds are a double-edged sword is: 
 nifty-next-50-yrly-return-1 The Nifty Next50 index has been in the news lately due to the fall in Adani group stocks, which had a reasonably large allocation in the index.The Next50 is one of the favorite indices of passive investors after bellwether Nifty50, so investors were wondering whether it made sense to continue investing in the Nifty Next50 or not after the Adani wipeout.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHow does Nifty Next50 differ from Nifty50?While the Nifty50 index is made up of the top 50 stocks by market cap in India, the Nifty Next50 is made up of the next 50 stocks, i.e., those ranked 51-100 by marketcap.But while the Next50 is also a largecap index as its constituent stocks qualify as largecap stocks (as per the SEBI definition), it is also true that given the nature and volatility of stocks, and comparatively larger impact costs, the Nifty Next50 behaves a lot like a midcap index when it comes to volatility.
 
The news published on the date April 19, 2023 07:18 AM IST with headline  Active fund managers bet big on these largecap stocks from the beaten down Nifty Next 50 index
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2023 08:46 AM IST with headline  Index funds saw max. inflows in FY22-23, 83 percent of which was into target maturity funds is: 
 Active funds saw net outflows of Rs 53,826 crore during the fiscal, mainly due to selling in debt funds. While active mutual fund (MF) schemes have struggled to beat their benchmarks, passive schemes have dominated the MF industry in the financial year 2022-23, garnering net inflows of Rs 1.57 trillion.Data shows active funds saw net outflows of Rs 53,826 crore during the fiscal, mainly due to selling in debt funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDespite flattish stock markets, equity funds saw net inflows of Rs 1.47 trillion during the financial year. Overall, the Indian mutual fund industry saw a net inflow of Rs 1.04 trillion during the financial year, and a net outflow of Rs 1.84 trillion in debt funds.Compared to this, in FY21-22, mutual funds overall had seen a net inflow of Rs 3.31 trillion.Let’s look at the key categories that saw the most activity during the recently-concluded financial year.
 
The news published on the date April 14, 2023 10:05 PM IST with headline  When should you increase your VPF contributions? is: 
 EPF is a solid debt product but it will not be enough for your retirement. As a salaried employee, you make regular contributions to your EPF (employees’ provident fund). This is deducted from your salary every month. Under current EPF rules, you have to mandatorily contribute 12 percent of your salary to the EPF account and your employer matches this (including the employees’ pension scheme or EPS part).While the employer’s contribution is restricted to a maximum of 12 percent, as an employee, you can increase your contribution further through Voluntary Provident Fund (VPF), over and above the mandatory 12 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIs it worth?EPF is good but no longer fully tax-freeEPF is a solid debt product, which, if left untouched, can act as a foundation of your retirement savings. But your EPF will not be enough for retirement. You need to save more. Many people realise this a bit late in their professional life but the sooner you wake up, the better.
 
The news published on the date April 14, 2023 08:29 AM IST with headline  Four tax-saving tools for your investment portfolio is: 
 Start tax saving investments early in the financial year The new financial 2023-24 has just begun. There are tons of financial tasks for you to get started off with this time of the year. One of them is tax planning, and the sooner you get started on that one, the better.The reason: You get to benefit from an additional 10 months’ worth of returns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTax saving benefits for investments are defined under Section 80C of the Income-tax Act. A variety of different investment products can fit under the 80C umbrella.There are choices across insurance, pension funds, fixed deposits and equity investments that you can choose from within this tax saving incentive. However, not all the options make for a good investment. The smart way to utilise the 80C benefit is to keep one eye on the quality of the investment option too. For instance, insurance policies are not investments in their true form and fixed deposits offer only a five-year deposit option under this section and, hence, we are leaving these two out of the discussion and focusing on long-term wealth creation along with immediate tax saving via the remaining options.Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF)
 
The news published on the date April 14, 2023 12:08 PM IST with headline  27.50 lakh women investors joined the mutual fund bandwagon in last three years is: 
 EPF is a solid debt product but it will not be enough for your retirement. The number of women investors in the mutual fund (MF) industry rose to 74.49 lakh at the end of December 2022 against 46.99 lakh in December 2019, according to data provided by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI).Overall, the number of unique investors as gauged by PAN/PEKRN (PAN exempted KYC Reference Number) jumped more than three times, from 1.20 crore at the end of March 2017 to 3.77 crore at the end of March 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe big jump in unique investors has been seen after the Covid-19 breakout ― from 2.08 crore at the end of March 2020 to 3.77 crore at the end of March 2023.N S Venkatesh, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), AMFI, says that nearly 40 lakh new investors came into the MF world last year, despite flat markets.Also see | The complete MC30 basket of mutual fund schemes
 
The news published on the date April 14, 2023 08:46 AM IST with headline  Equity fund inflows rise to Rs  20,534 cr, SIP book exceeds Rs 14,000 cr for first time is: 
 MF industry crossed the Rs 40 trillion milestone for the first time in November 2022. Net inflows into open-ended equity funds jumped 31 percent to Rs 20,534.21 crore, a one-year high, during March, even as Indian stock markets inched lower during the month, data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed.In the previous month, net equity inflows had stood at Rs 15,685.57 crore. Meanwhile, the hybrid net outflows in March came in at Rs 12,372 crore, as compared to inflows of Rs 460.30 crore in February.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDue to huge selling in debt and hybrid funds, open-ended mutual funds saw overall net outflows of Rs 21,693.91 crore during March.During the month, investments via systematic investment plans (SIPs) topped the Rs 14,000 crore mark for the first time ever. The SIP contribution for March came in at Rs 14,276 crore compared with Rs 13,686 crore in February.
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2023 03:31 PM IST with headline  When should you sell your mutual funds? is: 
 When a fund underperforms for a few months or quarters, you shouldn’t exit in a hurry. Investors spend a considerable amount of time picking the best funds. But generally, they are not very clear about how and when to exit/sell the same funds. More often than not, they end up not exiting, at times citing diversification. This leads to a cluttered portfolio — a ‘zoo’ of different funds.While regular and unnecessary churn is best avoided (as it leads to frictional costs in the form of capital gains taxation), it is still important to know when to exit a fund. You cannot neglect your exit strategy just to avoid paying taxes. Taxes are a reality of life, so you need to optimise your strategy for taxes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere is how to go about deciding when to exit your mutual funds.Exit due to fund under-performanceThis is the most common reason to exit a fund. But arriving at the conclusion that your fund is not doing well is not that simple. While a fund not doing well for a few months or quarters is common, you shouldn’t be in a hurry to exit such funds. It is not rare for good funds to undergo short-term underperformance. Only when the underperformance continues for a long enough period, say 1-2 years, compared to its benchmarks and peers, and that, too, by a decent margin (a few percentage points, at least, consistently), should you consider exiting.
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2023 08:56 AM IST with headline  Got Rs 10 lakh to invest? Tata MF’s fund manager picks 3 mutual funds to ride out volatile markets is: 
 Meeta Shetty, fund manager at Tata Mutual Fund Meeta Shetty, fund manager at Tata Mutual Fund manages Rs 12,363 crore under six funds such as Tata Digital India, Tata Focused Equity, Tata India Pharma & Healthcare and Tata Large & Mid Cap. She believes 2023 will be a repeat of last year as markets are expected to remain rangebound and riddled with volatility.In an interview with Moneycontrol, Shetty shared her expectations for the fourth quarter earnings of information technology (IT) companies, stock market outlook and top funds to pick.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: The complete MC30 basket of mutual fund schemesEdited excerpts:Earnings season has started. What are your expectations from IT companies?
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2023 10:44 PM IST with headline  Here are the multibagger microcap stocks held by PMS managers. Do you own any?
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2023 06:32 AM IST with headline  Kamath calling Kamath! Zerodha, Smallcase ring in a mutual funds JV is: 
 Smallcase will help Zerodha build simple low-cost passive mutual fund products. Stock brokerage Zerodha and Wealth management company Smallcase have announced a joint venture to launch an asset management company (AMC), which will focus on passive mutual funds.Zerodha Broking Limited in September 2021 had received in-principle approval from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to set up an AMC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile Zerodha's approval for final registration is under consideration with the capital markets regulator, the joint venture has already been approved by SEBI.“While awaiting the final approval of our AMC (mutual fund), we asked if we should build it ourselves or collaborate. Given the 6+ years of experience that @smallcaseHQ has in building investment products, it made perfect sense to create a joint venture (JV) to build the AMC,” Nithin Kamath, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Zerodha tweeted on April 12.Also read: The complete MC30 basket of mutual fund schemes
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2023 07:46 AM IST with headline  Is there a need to invest in multiple schemes of the same fund categories? is: 
 As per the rules, each asset management company is allowed to offer only one scheme in a mutual fund category. Diversification is a word that mutual fund investors are quite familiar with. There’s no doubt that when it comes to building an investment portfolio, diversification is super important. But proper diversification is one thing and owning too many funds in the name of diversification is another.The idea of diversifying a portfolio is straightforward. Different stocks, varying by sector and market capitalisation, among other things, do well or badly at different times. So, a well-diversified portfolio will spread the investment across several such companies, across sectors/industries and market-caps.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd since fund managers bring different strategies and styles to the table, a proper portfolio will ideally also have fund manager and asset management company diversification.Also see| The complete MC30 basket of mutual fund schemesI have often maintained that there is a place for both active and passive funds in an investor’s portfolio. Going passive-only is fine as well if investors are willing to take a bit of additional risk – then they can have active funds for mid- and small-cap exposure and passive funds for large-cap exposure.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2023 07:35 PM IST with headline  Debt taxation impact: Axis Mutual Fund, ABSL MF withdraw NFOs is: 
 As per circulars on BSE StAR MF Platform, refunds for the schemes would soon be released to clients' bank accounts. Asset management companies (AMCs) Axis Mutual Fund and Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund have called off their new fund offers (NFOs).The NFO period for Axis S&P 500 ETF Fund of Fund was March 22 to April 5, while Aditya Birla Sun Life Crisil IBX SDL Sep 2028 Index Fund was open from March 27 to April 5.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe withdrawals of the schemes came as investor focus shifted to existing debt funds after the government introduced changes to mutual fund taxation in the Finance Bill.Also read | Will SEBI push revive interest in ESG funds?It is likely that these funds failed to garner minimum subscription. Debt fund NFOs need to collect a minimum of Rs 20 crore, and for others, the threshold is Rs 10 crore.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2023 01:50 PM IST with headline  Underperformance of active largecap funds widened in 2022 is: 
 The report also noted that ELSS funds achieved the second-highest long-term survival rates across all categories in the SPIVA India Scorecard. The majority of Indian large-cap equity funds failed to beat the benchmark, with 88 percent of actively managed funds underperforming the S&P BSE 100 in the year ended December 2022.Ever since the emergence of passively managed equity funds, the build-up in assets under management (AUM) in passives has been significant.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe underperformance of actively managed funds widened in 2022 as the Indian markets remained flat during the year. Data shows that the BSE Sensex index rose just 4 percent during the year.In contrast, the index surged 22 percent in 2021. During the year, only 50 percent of equity large-cap schemes had underperformed their benchmarks.During 2022, the benchmark for Indian mid or small-cap funds -- the S&P BSE 400 Midsmallcap Index -- rose 2 percent with 55 percent of active managers underperforming the index.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2023 09:27 AM IST with headline  Will SEBI push revive interest in ESG funds? is: 
 SEBI’s thrust on ESG might just come as a blessing for ESG-specific MF schemes. On March 29, capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) made it mandatory for listed companies to make their Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance public. At the same time, it introduced a new category of mutual funds (MFs), called the ESG category, allowing funds to launch more than just one ESG fund.SEBI’s thrust on ESG might just come as a blessing for ESG-specific MF schemes that started out with much promise during the coronavirus pandemic but have since failed to attract retail investors. Over the last few months ESG funds have actually seen outflows.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut back in 2020 when the coronavirus pandemic spread across the globe, a growing need was felt among investors to invest in ‘responsible’ companies. As a result, from just two ESG-based funds at the beginning of 2020, the number grew to eight by the end of that year.Further, assets under management (AUM) tripled from Rs 2,749 crore at the end of January 2020 to Rs 9,236 crore till January 2021, as per data available with ACE MF.Also see: The complete MC30 basket of mutual fund schemes
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2023 01:45 PM IST with headline  MC 30 | Why five schemes go out of Moneycontrol list of top mutual funds? is: 
 fund-exit MC30 is Moneycontrol’s curated basket of 30 investment-worthy schemes. The reason why MC30 exists is to give you— our dear reader—a more manageable number of schemes (30) to choose from a large offering of more than 1,000 mutual fund (MF) schemes out there. Because all you need is about 7-12 MF schemes in your portfolio. MC30 schemes have a variety of actively-managed and passively-managed schemes, across categories. It is our endeavour to keep this basket as steady as possible.But over time, lots of things can change for an MF scheme. Sometimes, the fund manager’s calls go horribly wrong. Or worse, the after-effects of multiple such calls linger for way too long to ignore. A change in fund management also usually calls for a change of schemes in MC30, till the time we’re convinced there’ll be continuity in the way stocks have been picked. Or sometimes, there could just be better alternatives; the existing MC30 scheme may not be a bad one.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhatever be the reason, if new schemes come in, then an equal number of schemes go out. This year, five new schemes enter MC30. Hence, five schemes go out. Let’s meet the ones that bid goodbye to MC30.Read MC30: The methodology behind the curated basket of mutual fund schemesAxis Midcap Fund
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2023 05:46 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds invest Rs 1.82 lakh cr in equities in FY23 on strong push from retail investors is: 
 SIPs (Systematic Investment Plans) continue to be a popular investment method among retail investors. Mutual funds remained bullish on the Indian equities in 2022-23 and invested Rs 1.82 lakh crore largely due to a strong interest from retail investors and the correction in the market that led to reasonable valuation.This comes following a similar amount of Rs 1.81 lakh crore invested by mutual funds in the stock market in preceding financial year 2021-22 (FY22). Before that, they had pulled out Rs 1.2 lakh crore from equities in 2020-21, according to the data with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGoing ahead, equity outlook for the current financial year (FY24) will start improving in a couple of quarters once inflation starts coming down in the US and its central bank -- US Federal Reserve -- will change its policy stance from hawkish to dovish, Rajiv Bajaj, Chairman and Managing Director of Bajaj Capital, said.In the longer-term, India's growth prospect is higher amidst concern of slowing growth in major developed economies."The government's favourable policies along with a focus on investment led growth (Capex Push) and improved balance sheet of banks will drive earnings growth in the near future. The PLI (Production-linked Incentive) policy and the China+1 drive, is likely to boost India's manufacturing sector and contain our trade deficit. This is the reason why most of the investors are bullish on India's growth story and what better to play it except through Indian equities," he said.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2023 09:13 AM IST with headline  MC30 | New champions - schemes that made a fresh entry into the best MF list in 2023 is: 
 Representative image. MC30 is a basket of 30 hand-picked, investment-worthy, mutual fund (MF) schemes curated by Moneycontrol for you to choose from. Our rationale is simple: an investor needs just 6-10 MF schemes to build a solid portfolio. But with over 1,000 schemes out there, choosing the right one becomes difficult. MC30 can make your life easy.Through a rigorous risk-return testing process, we curate a list of 30 schemes, across equity and fixed income categories and active and passive funds, to give a shorter basket.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEvery year, some schemes go out of MC30 and get replaced with newer ones. Our aim is to keep this churn minimal. But some schemes are bound to fall by the wayside, may be due to underperformance or unethical practices (a rare case scenario, though) that don’t justify their continuance in MC30. Or, some schemes outside MC30 become attractive, especially in light of their long-term performance. Here, change is inevitable but as promised, our aim is to keep this change to a bare minimum.Read MC30: The methodology behind the curated basket of mutual fund schemes2023 review
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2023 10:03 AM IST with headline  MC30 review – 90% of schemes outperform peers in 2022 is: 
 MC30 review The Rs 40 lakh crore Indian mutual fund industry can no longer be considered a small basket of funds. There are 39 categories of MF schemes that offer 386 equity schemes, 314 debt schemes, and 138 hybrid funds. You are still left with 163 index funds, 155 exchange-traded funds, 39 gold, and silver-related funds, and 66 international funds.In reality, all one needs are 7-12 MF schemes. How do you pick the most suitable ones?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEnter MC30 or Moneycontrol 30.MC30 is a curated basket of 30 handpicked MF schemes. The rationale for MC30 is to give you a manageable number of MF schemes from over 1,000 schemes and asset classes to invest in.
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2023 07:51 AM IST with headline  14 mid-cap stocks held by mutual funds yet to unlock their potential. Do you own any?
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2023 07:29 AM IST with headline  Debt funds: Why the recent yield-curve inversion brings an opportunity for investors is: 
 Debt Mutual Funds are attractive With the Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das announcing the monetary policy on April 6, and with interest rates being paused for the time being, let’s shift the attention back to debt funds and how investors should plan their savings. But first, a bit of flashback.The government securities (G-secs) market witnessed a rare phenomenon a few weeks back.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the March 8 auctions, banks demanded more on the 364-day Treasury bills (T-bills) than the last-traded yield for the benchmark 10-year G-Sec. The cut-off eventually came in at 7.48 percent for the T-bills, compared with 7.45 percent for the benchmark paper.Typically, short-term debt securities fetch lower yields than long-term ones. Thus, what happened on that day was quite the contrary. Ergo, ‘inversion’.Now, that sounds like jargon. This also presents an opportunity for retail investors. Though the curve has tilted towards normalisation since then, short-term yields remain attractive.
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2023 06:33 PM IST with headline  SEBI issues guidelines for usage of brand or trade name by advisors, analysts is: 
 SEBI has barred IAs and RAs from using its logo. A day after issuing a comprehensive set of guidelines for advertisements issued by investment advisers (IAs) and research analysts (RA), the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has now come out with a circular on the usage of brand names or trade names by these entities.The capital markets regulator observed that few investment advisers and research analysts use the brand name/trade name/logo more prominently in their advertisements, websites, publications, correspondences with clients and various documents while marketing their services rather than their name as registered with SEBI.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | SEBI brings in advertisement code for investment advisers, research analysts“The brand name/trade name/logo may or may not be related to the name of IA/RA as registered with SEBI and hence may mislead and create confusion in the minds of the investors,” SEBI said in a circular dated April 6.While investment advisers and research analysts can still use the brand name/trade name/logo, SEBI has issued some guidelines to ensure transparency.
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2023 03:52 PM IST with headline  Want to stop your MF SIP? Don’t wait until the last minute is: 
 To discontinue an SIP, you can either use the pause or the cancel option. Systematic investment plans (SIPs) are a convenient route for retail investors to invest regularly in mutual funds (MFs) without having to worry about timing the markets. They bring in discipline into investing, and can help you build a corpus gradually over time.That said, if you wish to discontinue your SIP in an MF scheme, you have two options – either pause/stop or cancel the SIP.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGo for the pause option if you want to halt your SIP only temporarily, say for instance, due to short-term cash-flow issues. If you want to stop your SIP and not resume it, go for the cancel option.Time takenA few industry insiders we spoke with said most MF houses provide these options. It can take 10-15 days for your stop or cancel request to get processed, depending on the fund house.Also see: MC30: The best mutual funds to invest in
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2023 02:10 PM IST with headline  RBI pauses rate hikes. Time to ride debt funds is: 
 RBI pauses, time to invest in debt funds The Monetary policy committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) decided to leave the repo rate unchanged at 6.5 percent. This came as a surprise for a large pool of fixed income investors, as they were expecting a 25 basis points (bps) hike. Though only time will tell how the interest rate cycle unfolds in these uncertain times, fixed income investors should rejig their investments as the interest rate cycle may be turning.Rate actionStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe MPC has already hiked the repo rate by 250 basis points since May 2022. This has led to an increase in bond yields and interest rates on fixed deposits, across maturities. Recently, the interest rates on small savings schemes too were hiked for the April to June 2023 quarter.Though the RBI has decided to pause the rate hike cycle, the governor made it clear that, “Our job is not yet finished and the war against inflation has to continue till we see a durable decline in inflation closer to the target.”Consumer price index-based inflation has gone up to 6.4 percent in February 2023 compared to 5.7 percent in December 2022. However, RBI expects the inflation will go down. “Assuming an average annual crude oil price (Indian basket) of $85 per barrel and a normal monsoon, CPI inflation is projected to moderate to 5.2 percent for 2023-2024,” the governor said.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2023 08:15 PM IST with headline  SEBI brings in advertisement code for investment advisers, research analysts is: 
 SEBI in 2013 and 2014 had first brought in regulations for code of conduct to be followed by IAs and RAs. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has barred investment advisers (IAs) and research analysts (RAs) from using extensive technical or legal terminology or promising guarantee of assured return to investors in their communications.These compliances are part of SEBI’s new advertisement code to further strengthen the conduct of IAs and RAs, while issuing any advertisement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe capital markets regulator in 2013 and 2014 had first brought in regulations for code of conduct to be followed by IAs and RAs, respectively.As per the new code, advertisements will include all forms of communications, issued by or on behalf of IA/RA, including pamphlets, research reports, newspaper or TV ads, mails, electronic messaging and social media platforms, etc.The advertisement code for IAs/RAs has come a month after SEBI told mutual funds not to assure returns to investors.
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2023 12:05 PM IST with headline  Gold and silver ETFs suffer LTCG blow but still glitter is: 
 Gold ETFs have gained 14 percent, while silver funds have delivered returns of 3.60 percent on a yearly basis. Your investments in gold or silver exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and fund of funds will no longer have benefits of long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax and indexation and will be taxed at the marginal tax rate from this month.This is because the Finance Bill 2023 has mandated that capital gains from mutual funds with less than 35 percent invested in equities would now be taxed at the investor's income tax slab rate, irrespective of how long they are held.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNote that this change will not affect investments made till March 31, as they will continue to enjoy indexation and LTCG tax benefits.Also read | These equity funds were winners in FY23Apart from mutual funds, there are other ways of taking exposure to these commodities, such as in the physical or digital form. We look at how debt taxation will impact returns from gold/silver funds, and which would be the best way to take exposure to these precious metals.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2023 10:19 AM IST with headline  Equity or debt funds, SIP is an all-weather friend is: 
 SIP in debt mutual fund scheme This might come as a bit of a surprise, especially for debt fund investors. Just last month, the finance ministry abolished the long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax benefits, and indexation benefits.Despite this, debt funds are still a good option to invest. And there are few reasons. Unlike the FD taxation where interest is taxed each year, the tax liability in debt funds arises only at redemption. So you can defer (capital gains) tax liabilities for years and allow more of your invested money to compound. If that is not enough, then you can also adjust capital losses from other investments against the capital gains from debt funds. Finally, good debt funds may still give better pre-tax returns than FDs if the fund manager is able to efficiently manage duration, credit and interest rate risk.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: MC30-Curated List of Well Managed Mutual Fund SchemesWhile SIP has become a household term these days, it is mostly invested in equity funds. Debt funds are generally considered more for temporarily parking money or to make lump-sum investments.For starters, what is SIP? It is just a way of investing systematically and periodically. It can be done in any type of fund, not just in equity funds.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2023 11:46 AM IST with headline  These equity funds were winners in FY23
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2023 01:46 PM IST with headline  Watch out for these eight mistakes as financial year 2023-24 unfolds is: 
 Having a safety net in the form of an emergency fund not only adds to financial stability, but also leads to peace of mind. As we step into the new financial year 2023-24 (FY24), it's important to be aware of the common financial mistakes that can cost you dearly. From overspending via credit cards to not investing enough to tackle emergencies, procrastinating tax planning, not reviewing your credit report, and more, here is a quick rundown on the pitfalls to avoid.Mistake #1: Inadequate emergency fundStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNot having an emergency fund can put you in a difficult financial situation in case of any uncertainty, such as hospitalisation of a family member, job loss, etc. So, aim to save at least six months’ worth of living expenses in an emergency fund that you can access quickly.Having a safety net in the form of an emergency fund not only adds to financial stability, but also leads to peace of mind.“In the event of unexpected job losses, having at least six months to one year of living expenses saved up can help you bounce back quickly and get through financial turmoil without much stress,” says Varun Girilal, Managing Partner at Scripbox.
 
The news published on the date November 02, 2023 05:59 PM IST with headline  Fixed deposits or debt mutual funds: Which one is better for you? is: 
 Bajaj Finance Ltd: Shares of the Nifty major fell 2.5 percent to Rs xx, extending losses for the second day in a row. Banking, which constitute the largest segments of the AUM of FPIs are likely to be under pressure. This will provide opportunities for long-term investors to buy quality stocks, particularly in banking, at attractive rates, Vijaykumar from Geojit said. As the capital gains on debt funds units purchased after April 1, 2023, become taxable at the slab rate, many investors would think that debt funds come at par with fixed deposits. However, it is not the case. A careful look at both these instruments will help you to choose the right one to reach your financial goals.ReturnsStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe returns on FDs are assured, and so it is with bonds. Anup Bhaiya, Founder of Mumbai-based Money Honey Financial Services, says, “Repricing of interest rates gets captured in debt funds faster, as bond yields in the secondary market tend to react to changes in interest rates in the economy quickly. The interest rates on FDs generally act with a lag.”Debt funds do not offer assured returns. Market forces, changes in interest rates, changes in portfolio mix by the fund manager, and other factors can change the returns on debt funds. For example, long-duration debt funds may see returns going up when there is a big fall in interest rates in a short span of time. The capital gains on bonds held in the portfolio can boost returns. In a rising interest-rate scenario, such schemes may see muted returns.ALSO READ: 7 changes in financial landscape you need to know this April
 
The news published on the date March 31, 2023 09:38 AM IST with headline  Capital gains taxation: Is there a method to the madness? is: 
 The ministry has claimed that this move is to bring debt investments at par with fixed deposits because both promise fixed returns Highlights The changes in capital gains tax rules for debt funds has not been backed by a stated long-term vision by the government Debacles involving Franklin Templeton and Yes Bank show that bonds carry a risk and cannot be held on par with fixed deposits Fixed maturity plans and bond index funds do not remove all the risks involving the underlying bonds in the funds The tax rule changes don’t seem to be towards encouraging equity investments as STT and tax changes of..
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2023 07:17 PM IST with headline  Your 2023-24 money calendar: Keep your dates with your moneybox, investments, taxes, lender and more is: 
 A new financial year is the time for new beginnings, taking stock of your moneybox, doing a thorough review and planning for the year ahead. Come April 1, the new financial year will be upon us. The good news is that Covid-19 has gone down dramatically. Travel has opened up, airlines are reporting full flights, and hotels are full, albeit with room rates that have shot through the roof. The bad news is that the global economy is not out of the woods and many people in the technology industry have lost their jobs.The year 2023 has started with mass layoffs in many tech startups and global IT firms such as Amazon, Alphabet, Meta, Microsoft, etc. Several firms handed pink slips to their employees without a notice period. In March, Facebook parent Meta announced to lay off 10,000 in a second round of job cuts. The industry is bracing for a deep economic downturn.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMeanwhile, a new financial year, 2023-24, will soon be upon us. It’s time for new beginnings, taking stock of your moneybox, doing a thorough review and planning for the year ahead.Plan your investmentsSo far, 2023 has been volatile for equity investors, most recently because of the failure of Silicon Valley Bank, a collapse that has sparked concerns about the health of the global financial system amid central banks raising interest rates to tackle inflation. The outlook for the global economy is uncertain.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2023 08:12 AM IST with headline  7 changes in financial landscape you need to know this April is: 
 Effective April 1, several changes will affect taxpayers in India because of the income-tax changes announced in Budget 2023. The start of a new financial year is a good occasion to look at your investments and financial goals.Whether you have a loan or plan to take one, keep an eye on the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) policy announcement. Also, there are major changes in tax rules, in the withdrawal policy from the National Pension System (NPS), and for investments in post-office schemes and more.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSo, what are those changes in April 2023 that will pinch your purse?1 Income-tax rule changes for FY 2023-24Effective April 1, several changes will affect taxpayers in India because of the income-tax changes announced in Budget 2023. Some of the significant changes are as follows:
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2023 08:21 AM IST with headline  Got Rs 10 lakh to invest? Raj Khosla outlines the investment strategy for 2023-24 is: 
 As we approach the beginning of the new financial year 2023-2024, it is a good time to review your financial matters. As our equity markets turn volatile, investors develop cold feet.The ongoing changes in the regulatory landscape of mutual funds, and amendments in tax rules are some other issues that are adding to investors’ worries.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRaj Khosla, Managing Director, MyMoneyMantra, has seen many market cycles. In a conversation with Moneycontrol, he shares his views on many of these issues and how to invest at this juncture.Edited excerpts:Markets are witnessing increasing volatility in the last couple of months. What’s your advice to investors?
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2023 08:55 PM IST with headline  SEBI eases time limit for disclosure of NAVs of overseas funds is: 
 An NAV represents the value of a unit in the scheme and is the main performance indicator for a mutual fund. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has eased the timeline for the disclosure of net asset value (NAV) of mutual fund schemes investing in overseas markets.An NAV represents the value of a unit in the scheme and is the main performance indicator for a mutual fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMutual funds are mandated to disclose the NAVs of all schemes within a given outer time limit.Also read | SEBI evaluating Total Expense Ratio process, to release detailed guidelines“However, to address the difficulties being faced in the calculation of NAV for schemes investing overseas due to differences in time zones and market hours, partial modification with regard to timelines for declaration of NAV is prescribed depending on investment objective and asset allocation of schemes,” the capital markets regulator said in a circular on March 29.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2023 08:26 PM IST with headline  SEBI allows mutual funds to launch multiple ESG-based schemes is: 
 In order to address the risk of mis-selling and greenwashing, to enhance stewardship reporting requirements, and to promote ESG investing SEBI has made some key announcements today, which are expected to impact mutual funds. The Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the financial market regulator, has announced a slew of measures to boost ESG factor-based investing in India through mutual funds. Mutual fund houses henceforth, can launch more than one scheme, the investment mandate of which is governed by ESG factors.ESG ― Environmental, Social and Governance ― factors-based investing is catching up in all parts of the world. Indian policymakers are also incentivising sustainable investing. In order to address the risk of mis-selling and greenwashing, to enhance stewardship reporting requirements, and to promote ESG investing SEBI has made some key announcements today, which are expected to impact mutual funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs per extant rules of categorisation of mutual fund schemes, ESG schemes are considered thematic funds. And fund houses are allowed to launch only one ESG scheme. Now with the regulator allowing multiple schemes based on ESG-related factors, investors may get more alternatives in this space that suit their requirements.ALSO READ: Why using an ESG filter helps prevent stock market shocksThere are 10 ESG mutual fund schemes that manage Rs 10,216 crore. Mirae Asset Nifty 100 ESG Sector Leaders ETF is the only passively-managed equity fund, the rest are actively-managed ESG schemes. ESG schemes gave 21.47 percent returns compared to 24.67 percent in the three years ended March 28, 2023, as per Value Research.
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2023 12:45 PM IST with headline  SEBI evaluating Total Expense Ratio process, to release detailed guidelines is: 
 "There will not be another Karvy issue in our capital markets... If another Karvy like instance happens, it will be on our dead bodies...," Madhabi Puri Buch told reporters at the Sebi headquarters after a board meeting. Madhabi Puri Buch, the chairperson of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), on March 29 announced that the regulator is currently assessing the process of Total Expense Ratio (TER) and plans to release comprehensive guidelines on the matter.Speaking to reporters after a SEBI board meeting, Buch emphasized the importance of transparency in TER and stated that it must encompass all expenses.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShe also noted that SEBI has long recognized the existence of economies of scale in fund management. While SEBI continues to review TER, it has provided guiding principles to ensure clarity and thoroughness in expense reporting.Also read | SEBI allows PE funds as sponsors of MF schemes, permits self-sponsored AMCs“The second principle is that a fund house gets economies of scale not at the scheme level but at the asset class level such as debt or equity. The unintended consequence of the scheme-level economies of scale was that SEBI itself through its regulations was giving an incentive for the fragmentation of schemes, which was not good. Also, it was creating a lot of mis-selling in new fund offers. This had to be stopped,” Buch said.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2023 01:43 PM IST with headline  SEBI allows PE funds as MF sponsor, declutters trustee role, brings cheer to debt funds is: 
 SEBI headquarters in Mumbai (Reuters file image) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on March 29 said it has allowed private equity funds to sponsor Mutual Fund schemes, and has also permitted the set-up of self-sponsored asset management companies (AMCs).The decision to allow Private Equity (PE) funds as a mutual fund's sponsor were among many key decision that were taken at the SEBI board meeting on March 29, where the regulator gave its nod to key overhauls.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We would like more innovation in the MF industry," SEBI chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch said, while commenting on the decision to allow the PE funds to sponsor MF schemes."Self-sponsored AMC will also be now allowed...Once their kids become mature, sponsors can exit without having to find a new parents for this grown-up child," Buch said, adding that this issue is a "very significant liberation in MF industry".Also read | ASBA for secondary market, boost to ESG investing...the other important decision taken by SEBI at its Board meet
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2023 12:47 PM IST with headline  Hybrid mutual funds rev up to be the next big wave. But, do they suit everyone? is: 
 For the Rs 40 trillion mutual fund industry struggling to come to terms with the latest tax shocker, this new category of taxation has changed little. With the Finance Bill amendment, mutual fund schemes have come under three types of taxation. On schemes that invest 35-65 percent in equities, you will now pay Short-Term Capital Gains (STCG) tax in line with your income tax rates; long-term capital gains (LTCG) will attract 20 percent tax with indexation.To be sure, the Finance Bill has removed the capital gains tax and indexation benefits for debt funds that invest less than 35 percent in equity. In the third category of taxation, nothing changes for funds that invest at least 65 percent in equities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor the Rs 40 trillion mutual fund industry struggling to come to terms with the latest tax shocker, this new category of taxation has changed little. The fact that hybrid funds were left untouched by the Finance Bill amendment actually opens new opportunities.The question is: should you really switch to hybrid funds, if you’re affected by higher taxation on you debt fund investments?Under the spotlight
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2023 08:23 AM IST with headline  PMS strategies make hay when banking stocks correct
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2023 06:11 AM IST with headline  Sebi gives mutual fund holders till Sept 30 to furnish their nominations is: 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has extended the last date for furnishing nominations for mutual fund investments from March 31 to September 30.The capital market regulator had in June 2022 mandated nominations or opting out of nominations for all the existing individuals holding mutual fund units either solely or jointly by March 31, 2023, failing which the folios would be frozen for debits.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Based on representations received from the market participants, it has been decided that the provision… with regard to freezing of folios, shall come into force with effect from September 30, 2023 instead of March 31, 2023,” the regulator said in its latest circular.Sebi has asked Asset Management Companies (AMCs) and Registrar and Transfer Agents (RTAs) to encourage the unitholders to fulfil the requirement for nomination/ opting out of nomination by sending a communication on fortnightly basis by way of emails and SMS to all such unitholders who are not in compliance with the requirement of nomination.Also read | March 31 deadline for MF nomination gives headache to investors
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2023 11:17 AM IST with headline  Hear from wealth managers on the tax changes to debt funds from next month is: 
 Wealth managers recommendations of debt funds Wealth managers are busy making the most of the small window till 31 March 2023 to deploy money into debt funds and avail the benefit of indexation. Even as these wealth managers are busy conducting webinars and conference calls with their clients, Moneycontrol asked some of them for their views. Here is what they are advising their high net worth individual (HNI) clients.Stick to deadlineStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe change in taxation rules mandates that gains on purchase of units of mutual fund (MF) schemes with less than 35 percent equity on or after 1 April 2023, will be taxed as per the slab rate. There won’t be any indexation benefit. However, units bought till 31 March 2023 continue to enjoy indexation benefit. So, for investors with a minimum three years’ view, there is still scope to lock in their money and enjoy tax-efficient returns. Gains earned on sale of such units held for three years and more will get taxed at 20 percent post indexation.Wealth managers and distributors catering to big-ticket investors are conducting webinars and conference calls with their clients to educate them about this window of opportunity. To be sure most retail investors are yet to warm up to debt funds. Most debt fund investments are from investors in higher tax slabs or those keen on compounding their money in low-risk avenues for longer tenures.Ashish Shanker, Managing Director (MD) & Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Motilal Oswal Private Wealth, asks investors to review their existing portfolios and take corrective action, wherever necessary. “If you are invested in a low-yield scheme, it is good to switch to a high-yield one, if your financial goals permit. Complete all your debt fund investments before 31 March and then let the money compound as long as you can,” he says. He recommends investments in a dynamic bond fund or a medium-duration debt fund offering the roll-down strategy, provided you have a minimum three-year time-frame. “You can break your existing fixed deposits or use money lying in liquid funds or other instruments to fund this purchase,” he adds.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2023 06:23 PM IST with headline  New debt mutual fund norms: AMCs open subscription for international schemes is: 
 The move by AMCs came after the Ministry of Finance on Thursday amended Finance Bill 2023, that classified income from debt mutual funds as a short-term capital gain. The new norms are set to kick in from April 1, 2023. Several asset management companies (AMCs) have opened up subscription for international schemes to maximise inflows ahead of new taxation rules for debt mutual funds kicking in from April 1.The fund houses that resumed their international schemes are -- Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, Mirae Asset Mutual Fund and Edelweiss Mutual Fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEdelweiss Mutual has opened its all seven international funds for subscription from this Monday. It has started accepting switch-in or lumpsum transactions in these schemes."We had some limits, so we thought of letting investors take benefit of taxation by investing before March 31," Niranjan Awasthi, Head - Product, Marketing and Digital Business at Edelweiss AMC told PTI.Mirae Asset has opened subscription in a lump sum manner for three international ETFs and three Fund of Fund (FoF) based on these ETFs from March 27 onwards.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2023 12:13 PM IST with headline  With smarter fund management, debt can still make a difference is: 
 The government’s direct tax proposals meant foregoing revenue of an estimated Rs 38000 crore at the gross level. For long, the tax efficiency of debt funds was tom-tommed rather than the returns they fetched. The tax arbitrage was so stark that fund managers highlighted this point more than their ability to generate alpha.After the March 24 amendment to the Finance Bill, all that remains in favour of debt mutual funds is that they will enjoy deferred taxation compared to fixed deposits (FD). In an FD, one pays tax on accrual, whether or not the FD is redeemed. With mutual funds, tax will be applicable on redemption, whenever that happens.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHypothetically, if you invest and not redeem your MF for the next 10 years, you will manage to defer your tax liability for that period.What happens to target maturity funds?Target Maturity Funds (TMF) are the newest kid on the block, and many fund houses have launched them in the past few months given that interest rates are at a high, and unlikely to go up much — if at all — from these levels. For those open to locking away their money for 3-5 years, TMFs provided an excellent opportunity.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2023 01:00 PM IST with headline  How will the withdrawal of long-term tax benefit on debt schemes impact bank & AMC stocks? is: 
 The move comes as a big tax shock to the mutual fund industry. It will alter the flow of financial savings and impact investors’ asset allocation decisions. Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook Highlights Debt mutual fund schemes will be taxed at income tax rates Remove tax arbitrage opportunity between bank deposits and debt funds Some financial savings will shift from MFs to banks Banks will be major gainers, another jolt for AMC stocks In a surprise move, the government has made a last-minute amendment to the Finance Bill 2023 to remove the long-term tax benefit for debt mutual funds. The finance bill was passed in the Lok Sabha on Friday. The move comes as a big..
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2023 08:32 AM IST with headline  Wee window to claim indexation benefits till March 31 is: 
 Debt Funds New taxation rules applicable to debt funds with an equity exposure of up to 35 percent come into effect for investments made on or after April 1, 2023. That still leaves a small window open to invest in such funds and claim indexation benefits, up until March 31.But the thing is, should you invest in a debt fund now just for the sake of indexation benefits?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLock in yieldsTowards the end of the financial year the liquidity in the financial system goes down as large corporates require funds to settle outstanding bills, pay taxes, and for other purposes. This year, the impact of the ongoing rate hike cycle is already being felt. Since May 2022, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has raised policy rates by 250 basis points (bps).“Yields across maturities have gone up by 200 to 250 bps over the last one year. Bonds maturing in two to three years are attractive now. Yields are expected to trade in a narrow range for some time. Investors can capitalise on this opportunity,” says Prashant Pimple, Chief Investment Officer, Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2023 07:33 PM IST with headline  Debt taxation impact: Edelweiss, Mirae, Franklin MFs open overseas funds for lump sum subscription is: 
 Capital gains from debt funds and certain other categories of non-equity MFs are set to be taxed at a higher rate. With a few days left to go before the new debt taxation rules kick in, Indian asset management companies (AMCs) have started to resume investments in their international funds.Edelweiss Asset Management, Mirae Asset Investment Managers and Franklin Templeton Asset Management have announced they will be open for subscriptions in overseas funds and securities up to the amount permissible, without breaching the overseas investment limit.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe move by AMCs has come after the recent changes to the Finance Bill spelt doom for certain mutual fund (MF) categories.Tax googlyIn a big blow to MF investors, the government has decided that capital gains from debt funds and certain other categories of non-equity MFs are set to be taxed at a higher rate.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2023 09:32 AM IST with headline  Not just debt funds, gold and international funds to also lose from the Finance Bill tweak is: 
 The Association of Mutual Funds in India plans to urge the finance ministry to reconsider the amendments. Centre's surprise move to amend the taxation on gains from debt funds has come as a jolt for mutual fund investors and the sector. While some mutual fund categories lose out, others might gain, officials and experts said.According to the amendments to the Finance Act, gains from debt mutual funds with less than 35 percent of their assets in equities will now be taxed at the marginal tax rate across tenures as opposed to the earlier benefit of long term capital gains (LTCG) with indexation for debt investments of more than three years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEarlier, gains from investments in debt mutual funds of more than three years were subject to LTCG tax rate of 20 percent after indexation.According to brokerage house CLSA, with this amendment and the changes brought in the budget on life savings products, there is no tax arbitrage left across debt instruments, whether they are bank deposits, debt mutual funds or life insurance savings products.The Association of Mutual Funds in India plans to urge the finance ministry to reconsider the amendments, people aware of the matter said.
 
The news published on the date March 24, 2023 02:38 PM IST with headline  Live: Debt Mutual Funds Lose LTCG Taxation Benefit; Decoding The Impact | Finance Bill 2023
 
The news published on the date March 24, 2023 10:44 AM IST with headline  Quant MF’s Balanced Advantage Fund comes with a twist. Will it work? is: 
 Unlike existing BAFs, QDAAF will not insist on having a minimal 65 percent equity exposure at any time. Quant Money Managers has expanded its offering in the hybrid fund category, with the launch of an open-ended dynamic asset allocation fund, which will invest in both equity and debt.Dynamic Asset Allocation (DAA)/Balanced Advantage Fund (BAF) is one of the most popular categories in the Rs 40 lakh crore Indian mutual fund (MF) industry. The total assets under management (AUM) under this category is Rs 1.91 lakh crore, as of February-end.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat’s on offer?Called Quant Dynamic Asset Allocation Fund (QDAAF), the scheme will dynamically switch between equities and debt assets based on a risk-on, risk-off environment. The new fund offer (NFO) opened on March 23, 2022, and it will close on April 6, 2023.Like any other BAF, QDAAF will invest across equity and fixed-income instruments. But QDAAF comes with a twist.
 
The news published on the date March 24, 2023 11:18 AM IST with headline  Debt mutual funds may lose long-term capital gains taxation benefit is: 
 In a major blow to debt fund investors, a proposed amendment to the Finance Bill, 2023, is said to likely take away the benefit of 20 percent tax with indexation benefit that debt mutual funds currently enjoy.This is based on a copy of the proposed amendments to the Finance Bill, 2023, that has been circulating on social media and WhatsApp groups. One industry person told Moneycontrol there is no official confirmation of this.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to this document, gains on redemption of specified mutual funds (where not more than 35 percent is invested in equity shares of domestic companies) that are bought on or after April 1, 2023, will be taxed as short-term capital gains.That is, capital gains from debt funds, international funds and gold funds, irrespective of their holding period, will be taxed at an individual’s relevant tax slab. According to the industry person, the proposed amendment may also cover funds of funds, which invest in units of other mutual funds.However, more clarity is needed on this. Currently, gains on all these funds, where the holding period is over three years, are taxed at a lower rate – 20 percent with indexation benefit.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2023 02:13 PM IST with headline  Banking mutual funds turn sour; what’s the outlook for them amid the global turmoil? is: 
 The Indian banking sector, hurt by a foreign investor selloff triggered by dislocations such as the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) and the takeover of Credit Suisse by UBS, offers investors a buying opportunity thanks to the drop in stock valuations, experts say.As a category, banking mutual funds have delivered the worst returns at -9.13 percent since the start of the year, data available with Value Research shows. The category delivered a more than 21 percent return in 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo be sure, fund houses have variations of banking sector funds; some focus on private sector banks, some on public sector banks and others invest in both as well as financial companies. Some schemes are actively managed and some passively managed.The Indian banking sector performed well last year with an uptick in loan growth, a sharp, sequential net interest margin (NIM) improvement, and continued reduction in stress levels. Improvement in asset quality was led by lower slippages and relatively stable recoveries or upgrades.Also read | Diamonds in the dust: Favourite midcap stocks of MF and PMS that hit 52-week lowLet’s take a look at what’s ailing the sector, the global setup and how mutual fund investors can navigate the market during this phase.
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2023 06:49 AM IST with headline  Diamonds in the dust: Favourite midcap stocks of MF and PMS that hit 52-week low
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2023 11:07 AM IST with headline  Bandhan MF will be present in more locations after re-branding, says CEO Vishal Kapoor is: 
 Vishal Kapoor CEO Bandhan MF Bandhan Mutual Fund — earlier known as IDFC Mutual Fund — is ready for the fourth phase of its lifecycle. The fund house was born in the year 2000 as the ANZ Grindlays Mutual Fund. Just a year later, in 2001, it was re-branded as the Standard Chartered India Mutual Fund. In 2008, IDFC took over and the fund house became IDFC Mutual Fund. Earlier this month, Bandhan Financial Holdings, along with GIC and ChrysCapital, completed the take-over and re-branding of IDFC MF.The re-christened fund house will continue to be led by Vishal Kapoor, CEO, and his team. Since Bandhan Financial Holdings, the sponsor, did not have its own mutual fund, it chose to retain the management team of the erstwhile IDFC Mutual Fund. The continuity of the management is a big plus for its investors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn an interview to Moneycontrol, Kapoor shares his views on what lies ahead for the investors of Bandhan MF. Below are the edited excerpts:Since Bandhan Financial Holdings didn’t have an existing mutual fund house, the entire set-up of IDFC MF has been retained. What are the top three tasks for you in the near future?Our shareholders are three large institutions with strengths in both the retail as well as the institutional end. That gives us a wide spectrum of investors they have served.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2023 08:50 AM IST with headline  Balancing Act: How large and midcap mutual funds pick the best stocks across categories
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2023 11:28 AM IST with headline  March 31 deadline for MF nomination gives headache to investors is: 
 Debt Funds The March 31, 2023, deadline for mutual fund (MF) nominations is fast approaching. By this date, you must ensure that either you have a nominee/s for your MF investments or, if you don’t wish to have one, you should explicitly opt out of nomination. This must be done for each of your MF folios.Folios where you fail to do so will be frozen. That is, you will not be able to make any new investments or redemptions from these folios till you submit the relevant details. The capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), had issued a circular to this effect in June 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut be ready to encounter hurdles in the online nomination process, especially for MF investments (folios) that are held jointly, even in ‘either or survivor’ mode. Such investors will have to take the physical or offline route for nominations. “For a nonfinancial transaction such as nomination which can have repercussions in the future, all the folio holders have to come to a consensus and appoint a nominee,” says, Foram Shah, a Mumbai-based financial planner, associated as a senior manager with ACE FnSupermarket Pvt Ltd.That’s just the beginning. “For very old investments, many of which were done physically, there was no scope for providing the contact details of a second or third holder. That’s the reason why most people are struggling with the online mode,” adds Shah.Note that the nomination process discussed in this article applies only to your non-demat MF holdings. For MF investments made via a brokerage account, the relevant nominee will be the one applicable at the demat account level.
 
The news published on the date March 16, 2023 02:02 PM IST with headline  ED conducts searches on Franklin Templeton's Roopa Kudva, Vivek Kudva and others is: 
 The agency is looking to gather evidence as part of its investigation against the company and its promoters under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Directorate of Enforcement (ED) is searching the residences of individuals linked to Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd, sources said on March 16.The agency, which is responsible for investigating foreign exchange and money laundering offences, was searching the premises of Vivek Kudva, former head of Asia-Pacific (APAC) distribution, and his wife Roopa Kudva. Roopa heads Omidyar Network, India, sources said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIts team was also at the residence of Santosh Kamath, Chief Investing Officer-Fixed Income at Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund.“We continue to cooperate with all regulatory and statutory authorities and provide all data and information required by them. Franklin Templeton places great emphasis on compliance with regulations, and we have appropriate policies in place, consistent with Indian regulations and global best practices,” Franklin Templeton Asset Management’s spokesperson said.The raids are being conducted in connection with these officials withdrawing their personal money from some of the six debt schemes that Franklin Templeton India wound up suddenly in April 2020, sources said.
 
The news published on the date March 17, 2023 07:25 AM IST with headline  Amidst correction, these are the top largecap stocks exited by PMS strategies in February
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2023 01:43 PM IST with headline  High cash-yielding smallcaps and midcaps that become MF favourites
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2023 08:05 AM IST with headline  Last-minute tax savings: Why an ELSS works well for patient investors is: 
 Towards mid-March, some investors figure out that they are yet to complete their tax-saving investments. And the search makes them look for some quick fixes. If you too are looking for some tax-saving investment at this juncture, you may want to consider equity-linked savings schemes (ELSS) popularly known as tax-saving schemes.What is an ELSS?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTax-savings schemes are equity schemes of mutual funds that invest at least 80 percent of the money in stocks. In most cases, they are fully invested in a diversified portfolio of stocks. Units of these schemes held by investors are subject to lock-in of three years from the date of allotment. Investment up to Rs 1.5 lakh in a financial year can be claimed as deduction by an individual under Section 80C.Over the last three and five years ended March 8, 2023, these schemes on average have given 17.77 percent and 10.79 percent return, respectively, as per Value Research. In the past, over a longer period of time, ELSS has beaten other tax-saving investments by a decent margin.Despite volatility on Dalal Street over the last one year, experts are optimistic on equities, going forward.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2023 03:10 PM IST with headline  IDFC Mutual Fund rebrands as Bandhan Mutual Fund is: 
 Bandhan Mutual Fund IDFC Mutual Fund is all set to adopt its new brand identity as Bandhan Mutual Fund from Monday, March 13, 2023. As part of the rebranding, each scheme of the fund house will be renamed, replacing the word ‘IDFC’ with ‘Bandhan’."Since the underlying investment strategy, processes, and team continue to remain the same, investors can benefit from the same high‐quality investment approach that the fund house is reputed for," the fund house said in a statement on March 11.Story continues below AdvertisementSharing insights about the change in brand identity, Vishal Kapoor, CEO of the AMC said, “Our new name reflects our new sponsorship, and we are proud to now be a part of the Bandhan Group. Backed by the legacy, goodwill, and inclusiveness that our Sponsors represent, we are confident that our investors will continue to benefit from the same passion, expertise, and focus that they have experienced over the years.”As part of the rebranding, the fund house has changed not only its name but also its logo. "This rebranding to become Bandhan Mutual Fund marks a new chapter in the fund house's journey and is expected to bring fresh energy to its business," the statement reads.Starting Monday, investors can access the fund house’s new website https://www.bandhanmutual.com
 
The news published on the date March 10, 2023 08:53 PM IST with headline  Investors start warming up to debt funds, equity flows continue to be strong: AMFI is: 
 The Indian mutual funds industry continued to attract inflows, but investors got choosy in February 2023 given the highs that equity markets appear to have reached and interest rates that, too, appear to have reached their peak levels. Here are six key trends that emerged in the way investors put money in—and withdrew from—the Rs 40 trillion Indian mutual funds (MF) industry.Equity funds’ inflows bounce backStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEquity funds saw strong inflows in February 2023. These funds got net inflows (more money came in than went out) to the tune of Rs 15,686 crore in the month. The last time they got such strong inflows was in May 2022 at Rs 18,529 crore.These inflows came on the back of strong flows in mid- and small-cap funds as well as multi-cap funds. In February, multi-cap funds got Rs 1,977 crore as net inflows, mid-cap funds got Rs 1,817 crore and small-cap funds got Rs 2,246 crore as net inflows.Last minute tax-savings
 
The news published on the date March 10, 2023 11:29 AM IST with headline  Why using an ESG filter helps prevent stock market shocks is: 
 ESG Investing Indian markets recently woke up to the news of a large industrial group, the Adani group, being accused by a US-based short seller of "brazen" market manipulation and fraud, which caused a significant selloff in its group company stocks.While the Adani group rejected the accusations and called it “bogus”, the short-seller stood by its report and the markets seem to be punishing the overvaluation in these stocks, to say the least.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile such a short-selling activist approach is rare in Indian markets, corporate governance issues aren’t.A history of misgovernanceInvestors in Indian markets may recall the Satyam Computer Services fraud that was unmasked in the wake of the global financial crisis triggered by the Lehman Brothers collapse.
 
The news published on the date March 10, 2023 11:15 AM IST with headline  MC Exclusive: Sebi proposes mutual funds ‘own their broking’ or foot broking expenses is: 
 One of the solutions being offered by the SEBI is that mutual funds have their own broking terminals as it would help lower costs in the long run. (Representative Image) In what could be a big blow to the broking industry, and a painful affair for mutual fund companies, the Securities and Exchange Board of India has proposed that mutual funds get membership on stock exchanges, and do trades through their own trading terminals, two senior MF officials with knowledge of the matter told Moneycontrol.“The matter is still at the discussion stage,” one official said, “….the objective is two-fold.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSEBI did not comment on the questionnaire sent to it on the issue.At present, the brokerage charges incurred by mutual funds while buying and selling of shares falls outside the Total Expense Ratio (TER) that they charge unitholders. Mutual funds pay roughly 0.12 percent (12 basis points) to brokers for every trade. It is lower--6 basis points--if the trade is done through the Direct Market Access Route (DMA), wherein dealers from mutual funds can place trades directly from the terminal at their end.SEBI would like to make this cost part of the TER. Asset management companies are protesting this move as it would hit their profit margins, with the cost varying according to how frequently they churn their portfolios.One of the solutions being offered by the regulator is that mutual funds have their own broking terminals as it would help lower costs in the long run.
 
The news published on the date March 10, 2023 07:05 AM IST with headline  Axis MF picks B Gopkumar of Axis Securities as CEO after Chandresh Nigam steps down is: 
 B Gopkumar is the new CEO of Axis AMC B Gopkumar, managing director and chief executive officer at Axis Securities, is the new CEO of Axis Mutual Fund. He takes over from Chandresh Nigam who has stepped down as the CEO.The fund house has been plagued by the front-running scandal that came to light last year when it suspended its former chief dealer Viresh Joshi after finding him guilty in an internal investigation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on February 28 said it has barred Joshi and 19 others in a front-running case linked to the fund house.The market regulator said it identified Rs 30.5 crore as wrongful gains accrued due to the alleged front-running activities and directed that this amount be impounded from the entities.Nigam will continue till the end of his term, that is April 30, 2023. Gopkumar will take over on May 1, 2023 for a 3-year term.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2023 01:23 PM IST with headline  Women's Day: How an article pulled Kiran Telang into the financial advisory industry is: 
 Kiran Telang, a Mumbai-based certified financial planner (CFP) Note to readers: In this special three-part series, Moneycontrol profiles three women, who are not only in control of their own personal finances but also help other women and families manage their money.Yesterday we profiled Priya Sunder. Today, meet Kiran Telang, a Mumbai-based certified financial planner (CFP).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdComing from a banking background, Kiran Telang gravitated towards financial planning after reading about CFP certification in a magazine in 2002. She hasn’t looked back since, and today, helps around 100 families achieve financial freedom.A post-graduate in management from Mumbai University, Telang started her own practice in 2006, became a CFP in 2007, and registered with the SEBI as an investment advisor in 2014.A banker’s journey
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2023 07:28 AM IST with headline  India Fintech Conclave | Indian regulations are like exams, but you come out wiser at the end: Prakarsh Gagdani, 5Paisa is: 
 From left to right: Pravin Jadhav, Founder and CEO, Raise Financial; Radhika Gupta, CEO, Edelweiss AMC; Kayezad Adajania, Editor- Personal Finance, Moneycontrol; Subramanya SV, Co-Founder and CEO, Fisdom; Prakarsh Gagdani, CEO, 5Paisa; and Nikhil Aggarwal, Founder and CEO, Grip Indian fintech leaders feel that regulations are like periodic examinations, whose frequency has increased in the recent past.However, they also agreed that these regulations have made investing safer for Indian customers, which has helped the fintech industry grow faster over the past few years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt Moneycontrol's inaugural India Fintech Conclave (IFC) on March 7, Prakarsh Gagdani, CEO, 5Paisa, said, "Regulations are like exams. You don't like it but you have to go through it. But you come out wiser in the end. Only now we have gone from monthly exams to weekly exams."Pravin Jadhav, Founder and CEO, Raise Financial added, "It feels like as a stockbroker, we have to repeat exams five times every day."While speaking during a panel discussion on the topic, “Fintech and Markets: Navigating the Regulatory Landscape”, Radhika Gupta, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Edelweiss Asset Management Company, said, “We sometimes complain about regulation, but mutual funds have become the Rs 40 trillion industry because we are the best-regulated industry in the country.”
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2023 11:29 AM IST with headline  SEBI tells mutual funds to not promise returns; comply with advertisement code is: 
 SEBI has asked mutual funds to refrain from making assurances of returns and has advised distributors too The capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), told mutual funds (MF) not to assure returns to investors. In a letter dated March 3 that it sent out to the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI; the MF industry’s trade body), it reminded AMFI to stick to the advertisement code as part of the SEBI MF regulations.It said that it came across instances where some MFs have circulated pamphlets and brochures that lead investors to believe that they will receive a fixed sum of money if they do a combination of systematic investment plan (SIP) and systematic withdrawal plan (SWP).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | NSE cautions investors against schemes offering guaranteed returnsAn SWP is a facility where you get to withdraw a certain sum of money every month. Whereas a SIP is a facility wherein you get to invest a sum of money, regularly, typically every month. While mutual funds cannot, by law, assure returns, an SWP is a popular mechanism to get regular returns; a facility popular with retirees in recent years thanks to growing awareness.Promising returns, or giving an impression that this is a sure-shot way to earn a regular income- is another matter. And that’s where the problem arises. SEBI appears to have come across brochures and illustrations that are being peddled to give an impression that returns are assured, if you, say start a SIP and then after three or so years, start an SWP. In reality, SWP can draw from your capital, if your scheme’s net asset value (NAV) doesn’t grow consistently.
 
The news published on the date March 03, 2023 01:13 AM IST with headline  SEBI pauses B-30 commissions till mutual funds revamp systems is: 
 T-30 refers to the top 30 geographical locations in India and B-30 refers to the locations beyond the top 30. Capital markets regulator SEBI has asked mutual fund companies to keep the small-town linked incentive structure in abeyance, citing the lack of a system-driven mechanism to check the misuse of this incentive structure.To promote financial inclusion through increased penetration of mutual funds and in the interest of investors, SEBI had permitted fund houses an additional expense ratio of 30 basis points (bps) on new inflows (amounts up to Rs 2 lakh) from retail investors for incentivising mutual funds garnering funds from B-30 cities and to energise the distribution network.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdT-30 refers to the top 30 geographical locations in India and B-30 refers to the locations beyond the top 30.As per a SEBI letter dated February 24, which was forwarded to the fund houses by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) on March 2, the regulator observed certain inconsistencies and deficiencies in the manner of implementation of charging an additional expense ratio of 30 bps on new inflows from B-30 locations.Also read | YouTube pump-and-dump scheme: SEBI cracks whip on actor Arshad Warsi, wife and others
 
The news published on the date March 02, 2023 11:41 AM IST with headline  Outperformance of Indian markets will get stronger, says Richard Pattle of True Beacon is: 
 Richard Pattle, co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of True Beacon Bengaluru-based True Beacon, a wealth management company, runs Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) for onshore investors and a Portfolio Management Service (PMS), which is a Nifty 200 product. The firm also has a presence in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City for overseas investors.Richard Pattle, co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of True Beacon, says that while India has done well in controlling inflation, it remains a concern globally. In an interview to Moneycontrol at the venue of PMS Bazaar’s Dubai Alternative Investment Summit, Pattle spoke about the expectation from the PMS industry and India’s economic outlook. Edited excerpts:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRealistically, there are around 300 stocks that PMS and mutual funds focus on. So, what do you do to create alpha compared to, let’s say, mutual funds?Our AIFs are chiefly focused on Nifty 50 so we have an even smaller universe there. We have a small but very highly focused team based in Bengaluru. Obviously, they've got vast experience in this. So we're trying to generate some alpha there.But going specifically to the PMS, that's an exciting product for many of our clients because it is using all of these data points and the behaviors of these stocks under perhaps 120 factors that may be at play at any one single time. So we know when to enter and to exit, a slightly higher churn because it's very active set of strategies that are running on that. But this isn't about stock pickers in isolation sitting there. Obviously, the fundamentals are fed into our own proprietary algos for producing the model portfolio. But it's around the analysis of this vast amounts of data for each of these companies going back 10 years.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2023 02:17 PM IST with headline  Where to invest Rs 10 lakh today? Avoid China, the US is a much better market internationally, says Piyush Garg of ICICI Securities is: 
 Piyush Garg, Executive Vice-President & CIO, ICICI Securities Financial advisors and experts usually recommend a chunk of your money to be invested in equity markets and the remaining in debt markets. But Piyush Garg, Executive Vice-President & CIO, ICICI Securities, says that the interest rate cycle is near its peak, and hence, the fixed income market offers a good opportunity for investors to make superior risk-adjusted returns. But he is keeping a sharp eye on the equity markets as well. Garg believes that equity market valuation in India is on the higher side and urges investors to keep aside 10-15 percent in cash, and deploy it when the Nifty 50 falls towards 16,000 levels. Edited excerpts from a conversation with Moneycontrol:Equity markets have been flattish since November 2022. Many retail investors are waiting on the sidelines for the markets to fall and then invest. Is that a wise move?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt's very difficult to answer (when markets might fall). One way to circumvent the uncertainty is to do a systematic investment plan (SIP). My sense is that equity markets will remain subdued for the next six to eight months.In a flattish market like this, SIP is a brilliant strategy. It’s also important to top-up your SIPs, periodically. If you were, say, doing Rs 100 SIP (a month) till about a year back, we have been advising that you should increase it to Rs 110, to Rs 120, to Rs 130. Almost every six months, you can keep increasing the SIP if the Nifty remains in the 17,000 to 18,000 levels.And if it falls to around 16,000 levels, maybe you can even put up a lump sum amount as well.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2023 11:31 AM IST with headline  6 changes in the financial landscape this March you need to consider is: 
 If you haven’t started your tax planning, do it now as we are just a few weeks away from March 31, the end of the financial year. Last month in the financial year is crucial. It’s time to complete pending tasks, such as linking your PAN and Aadhaar with a late fee and invest wisely to save taxes if haven’t done so far. Avoid investing in traditional insurance policies with high premiums. Mutual fund investors know the rules of appointing nominees and take the action. Senior citizens invest in Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMVVY) because the government may not extend the scheme after March 31 and other changes in the policy that will pinch your purse.Citibank customers also take a note that from March 1, 2023, the bank will transfer its consumer business in India to Axis Bank. So, there could be some announcements in the month for customers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad1 Axis Bank’s acquisition of Citi consumer businessCitibank customers, take note! From March 1, 2023, the bank will transfer its consumer business in India to Axis Bank, completing the final step in the process of acquisition that started in March last year.The multinational bank’s consumer business in India comprises credit cards, home loans and personal loans, retail banking and insurance distribution, among others.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2023 09:31 AM IST with headline  How fund managers in the alternative investment space look to create wealth is: 
 Experts say alternatives space gives portfolio managers advantage to deliver better returns. Fund managers in the Portfolio Management Service (PMS) and Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) industry now have more options to add value to investors in a much more balanced way, say experts.The current asset size of the Indian alternative investments is Rs 12 trillion (Rs 12 lakh crore), with around Rs 5 trillion (Rs 5 lakh crore) managed by PMSes and around Rs 7 trillion (Rs 7 lakh crore) looked after by AIFs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn a panel discussion held during the Dubai Alternative Investment Summit organised by PMS Bazaar, experts weighed in on how India's portfolio managers create investor wealth. Edited excerpts:Looking beyond benchmarksExperts at the summit were of the opinion that there are many emerging trends to make money in India. Some common themes among these are consumer discretionary, manufacturing and digitisation.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2023 11:36 AM IST with headline  Axis MF front running case: SEBI bars Viresh Joshi, 20 others from accessing capital markets is: 
 SEBI had conducted a probe in the Axis MF front running case between Sept 2021 and Mar 2022 (Image: Reuters) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on February 28 said it has barred Viresh Joshi, the former chief dealer of Axis Mutual Fund, and 19 others in a front running case linked to the fund house.The market regulator said it identified Rs 30.5 crore as wrongful gains accrued due to the alleged front-running activities and directed that this amount be impounded from the entities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSEBI further alleged that Joshi conceived a "fraudulent scheme" in "collusion" with other 'unscrupulous entities' to front run trades of Axis MF.Also Read | Sacked fund manager Viresh Joshi sues MF house alleging wrongful terminationSEBI in its order claimed that it was Joshi, working as the head dealer, who had the discretion to decide as to when the orders of Axis MF would be placed. Further front-running trades were executed from trading accounts of the entities and persons indirectly connected to Joshi. In its investigation, SEBI observed that Joshi had abused the work-from-home situation prevalent in many organisations and fund houses during Covid-19 pandemic.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2023 11:12 AM IST with headline  Citi consumer business is now Axis Bank property: What changes for customers is: 
 Effective March 1, your investments with Citibank in mutual funds, PMS or AIF will be transferred to Axis Bank Axis Bank has completed the acquisition of Citibank’s consumer business. The deal, announced in March 2022, will see India’s third largest private sector bank absorbing Citibank’s consumer businesses covering loans, credit cards, wealth management and retail banking operations in India.Axis Bank, on March 1, put out a video advertisement to welcome the 30 lakh plus customers of Citibank. “Finding the familiar in the new, is a wonderful thing. Welcome to a dil se open world that feels less new, more you,” Axis Bank tweeted on March 1.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCitibank has now put out a list of answers to customers’ common queries about the transition process. Let’s decode its responses to queries around Citi’s existing products, services, charges, and more.I have an account with Citibank. Will my bank account details remain the same after this transfer to Axis Bank?Yes, you can continue using your Citi account for now without any changes in the account number, IFSC / MICR codes, debit card, cheque book, fees and charges. In case of any changes in future, Axis Bank will notify the customers.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2023 12:52 PM IST with headline  Shankar Sharma on Adani, risks to India's growth and next big market trigger is: 
 Shankar Sharma, founder of GQuant Investech Inflation has proved to be more problematic than anybody anticipated, said Shankar Sharma, founder of GQuant Investech. In an interview with Moneycontrol at the venue of PMS Bazaar’s Dubai Alternative Investment Summit, the market veteran talked about what will move the markets, the impact of the Hindenburg report and George Soros’ comments on the Indian economy, and the fall in shares of new-age companies. Edited excerpts:What will be the next big triggers for the Indian market?The trigger is going to be a softening in the RBI’s tightening stand because there is enough evidence that there is an impact of the rate-tightening cycle on consumer demand, both in rural India as well as in urban India. If you look at the numbers of consumer companies, Asian Paints and others, it is telling you that there is a softening in demand. So I think the trigger is going to be the next policy meeting when the RBI probably should give a pause or enough indication that it is turning dovish, instead of hawkish.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | Indian equity markets struggle to attract retail investors amid volatility after budgetGlobally, do you think inflation is still a worry?Yes, it is proving fairly sticky, which is a problem. One of the reasons is that the Russia-Ukraine war is not ending any time soon. So that will keep prices elevated for a reasonable length of time. Also, the fact that the central banks globally and in India have probably been caught napping. They were too focused on growth and less focused on price stability, and that is now hurting them. Inflation has proved to be more problematic than anybody anticipated.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2023 10:24 AM IST with headline  With up to 252% returns, these 15 smallcaps make it to mutual funds hotlist
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2023 07:44 AM IST with headline  The best asset allocation for a young, first-time investor is: 
 If you are investing your first salary, or you’re in your 20s and just starting your investment journey, how much should you invest in equities and debt? In simple words, what should your asset allocation be?Go to any financial planner and that’s the first thing you’ll hear. Although asset allocation is as important as choosing the right mutual fund or stock, there is no one answer. Every investor has his or her own asset allocation, which depends on many things. What to do?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol research has a few pointers.Getting the mix rightWe tried a simulation exercise with five different combinations of equity and debt instruments.
 
The news published on the date February 24, 2023 08:13 AM IST with headline  Should you choose a Direct or Regular plan in an MF? is: 
 This question may sound superfluous on the face of it - Direct Plans are better, right? The answer to that is not so straightforward.Let us get a bit of context here about Direct and Regular Plans. Regular plans of Mutual Funds (MFs) are products suggested by MF intermediaries like banks, wealth managers, individual and corporate distributors of MFs, who sell these products to investors. These products are commissionable.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Mutual Fund House deducts a certain sum as expenses to manage the money, marketing costs and others. The commissions are paid to the distributors of their products from the expenses so collected. The distributors, in turn, help in investing the product and also service the investment in terms of suggesting appropriate products suitable to their situation and managing it for their clients and reporting.In the case of investment advisers registered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), they offer advisory services. They play a fully client-centric role, are fiduciaries to their clients and are mostly conflict-free as they represent only their clients.Also Read: Why are more investors investing in passive funds?
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2023 08:55 AM IST with headline  How long will it take to build Rs 10 crore of wealth purely by investing? is: 
 Systematic investing with an eye on increasing the value as income increases can help you transform small amounts of money into a large, accumulated pool of wealth. There is a misconception that one must start with substantial capital to create substantial wealth. This is a myth that can discourage one from making the most efficient choices when it comes to investing.Instead of focusing on investing lumpsums in bank deposits or being misguided into buying high-premium traditional life insurance plans, the focus should be on the three aspects that are critical for efficient long-term investing: starting early, being disciplined, and regularly increasing your annual investments by small proportions in line with any increase in income.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdApproached in this manner, creating long-term wealth does not require relying on a large-sized capital investment, nor do you need to chase the highest return investment alternatives. What you need is time and discipline.Numbers do not lieTo understand the impact of regular, disciplined investing with annual increments, we tried to answer the question: How long will it take to build Rs 10 crore of wealth purely by investing?
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2023 06:30 AM IST with headline  Why Indian mutual funds are loving cash all the more these days is: 
 An analysis of profit & loss data, shared by CRISIL, shows that 25 of the 42 fund houses made profits in Financial Year 2021-22, down from 28 a year earlier. India’s mutual funds are sitting on large piles of cash. Recently, brokerage firm Motilal Oswal Financial Services (MOFS) found that the cash proportion of the Assets Under Management (AUM) of India’s top 20 mutual fund houses was the highest in 25 months in January. Let us try to understand the rationale behind this trend.Looking at the numbersStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to data compiled by MOFS, the average cash holding of the top 20 AMCs was 5.9 percent as of January-end. PPFAS MF held the maximum cash as a proportion of its AUM, at 15.6 percent, whereas Mirae Asset MF held 1 percent, which was the least.The generally accepted normal range of cash proportion held by MFs is 1- 5 percent. However, only eight among the top 20 MF houses are currently holding cash below 5 percent of their AUM.Ravi Gopalakrishnan, CIO- equity, Sundaram Mutual Fund, said earlier, “We remain reasonably invested across chosen businesses with cash levels having broadly remained around 3-5 percent. We believe in adhering to the investment process through various market phases to eliminate noise and back our convictions.”
 
The news published on the date March 02, 2023 07:32 AM IST with headline  14 new midcap stocks picked up by PMS managers in 2023, despite correction
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2023 12:23 PM IST with headline  SBI Dividend Yield Fund NFO opens: Should you invest? is: 
 SBI Dividend Yield Fund NFO After launching four debt schemes in a row, SBI Mutual Fund, the largest fund house in the country, has unveiled its maiden equity offering for CY2023, the SBI Dividend Yield Fund (SDF). The new fund offer (NFO) opened on February 20, 2023.What is on offer?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSDF’s objective is to build a diversified portfolio of dividend-paying stocks. The scheme is managed by Rohit Shimpi and the performance of the scheme is benchmarked against the Nifty 500 TRI. The fund manager has to invest a minimum 65 percent of the money in dividend-paying companies. The scheme plans to build the portfolio in such a manner that the overall dividend yield of the portfolio is at least 50 percent more than that offered by Nifty50.What works?The dividend-yield strategy has been around for some time. For beginners, the dividend yield is computed by dividend per share by price per share. So, if a share with a price of Rs 100 pays out a dividend of Rs 4, the dividend yield works out to 4 percent. Higher the dividend yield of a stock, the more attractively valued it is, says old wisdom.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2023 11:38 AM IST with headline  SEBI plans to give more teeth to mutual fund trustees, making them more accountable is: 
 In its latest proposal, SEBI wants trustees to be given more powers to focus on certain “core responsibilities”. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) recently published a consultation paper on the role and obligations of Mutual Fund (MF) trustees in order to address conflicts of interest among unitholders and stakeholders in asset management companies (AMCs).In the three-tier structure of the Indian MF industry (sponsor, trustee and AMC), the Board of Trustees, or Trustee Company, holds the property of a mutual fund in trust for the benefit of unitholders.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile MF regulations provide guidelines to address conflicts of interest, there may still remain some areas that require trustees to pay specific attention to.Potential conflicts may be investments by MF schemes in public issues of the sponsor or associates, sponsor group companies engaging in insider trading or front running by taking advantage of access to MF schemes, as well as sponsors influencing voting by MF schemes. Also read | Check out Moneycontrol’s curated list of 30 investment-worthy mutual fund schemes
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2023 11:18 AM IST with headline  MF, PMS, ULIP and AIF love to hold these smallcap stocks. Do you own any?
 
The news published on the date February 17, 2023 11:53 AM IST with headline  HDFC Mutual Fund launches MNC-themed fund. Should you invest? is: 
 MNCs tend to have a good track record of free cashflow generation and high dividend pay-out. HDFC Mutual Fund has launched an open-ended equity scheme that will invest primarily in equity and equity-related instruments of multinational companies.The core portfolio of the new fund offering called HDFC MNC Fund will consist of MNCs, including companies with foreign promoter shareholdings of more than 50 percent or companies that form part of the Nifty MNC index.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUp to 20 percent of the portfolio can consist of an Indian company with part of its turnover/revenue from overseas as well as Indian franchisees of foreign companies.MNC thematic funds have delivered an average of 1 percent, 12.21 percent, 6.84 percent, and 14.58 percent returns, respectively, on one-, three-, five- and 10-year periods, according to data available with Value Research.Also Read | Check out Moneycontrol’s curated list of 30 investment-worthy mutual fund schemes
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2023 12:10 PM IST with headline  Why investors are into long duration debt funds despite the RBI repo rate hike is: 
 Long Duration Funds Whenever interest rates go up, bond prices fall. The impact is the highest in long-term bonds, and schemes investing in them see muted returns and even losses. But the mutual fund numbers show a different picture this time. Though the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been hiking the repo rate since May 2022, investors are gradually investing in long-duration debt funds that invest in long-duration funds.In the three months from November 2022 to January 2023, long duration funds (LDF) have seen net inflows of Rs 732 crore. LDF as a category managed assets to the tune of Rs 3,718 crore as on January 31, 2023. This indicates significant investor interest in these schemes. In the last six months, four fund houses — Aditya Birla Sun Life, Axis, HDFC and SBI — have launched LDFs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhy LDFs are attractiveInvestments in long-term bonds generally lose value when interest rates rise. However, smart investors sense an opportunity when the interest rates are nearing their peak.“Upward pressure on bond yields is limited. We believe that most of the interest rate hikes are behind us. Current yields on long-term bonds are potentially attractive,” says Devang Shah, Co-head, Fixed Income, Axis Mutual Fund.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2023 07:23 AM IST with headline  Equity funds disappointed in 2022. But there’s a way to turn them around is: 
 After a good 2020 and 2021, 2022 was quite a disappointing year for investors. In 2020 and 2021, equity funds gave 16.2 percent and 33 percent, respectively. But in 2022, they gave just 3.15 percent.After COVID-19, there has been strong media coverage about the multi-fold increase in the number of retail investors entering the market.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThese retail investors are also credited for providing a huge depth to the market, since in a year when foreign portfolio investments (FPIs) have seen record outflows, the markets didn’t crash. Rather, it remained relatively balanced due to the huge SIP and other equity inflows.But for investors, especially those who entered after 2020, this is the first time when they have seen either nil or negative returns and their portfolios are showing, at best, low single-digit annualised returns. This is compounded by two factors.- The outlook for 2023 doesn’t necessarily seem positive as there is the threat of an impending recession in developed markets, and there is worry that more pain may be ahead
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2023 04:42 PM IST with headline  These 22 stocks helped the top 5 PMS schemes outsmart Nifty in January is: 
 PMS schemes cater to wealthy investors with ticket sizes exceeding Rs 50 lakh. (Representative image) Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × In 2022, Indian equities outshone global markets by a considerable margin. However, the tide reversed in January and the Indian stock market began the year on a weak note.Factors impacting Indian indicesStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhen global peers (including emerging markets) made healthy gains in January, the Indian benchmarks remained quite volatile and lost over 2 percent. However, experts suggest that the Indian equity market had outperformed its global peers by a significant margin earlier in 2021 and 2022, which to a certain extent explains India’s relative underperformance in January.Neeraj Chadawar, head, quantitative equity research, Axis Securities, pointed out, “Currently, FTSE India is trading at an 86 percent PE premium to the EM index, as against the 40 percent average premium.”A couple of months ago, the Chinese market had been underperforming due to its zero-COVID policy. However, “during this period, our domestic market was outperforming its peers, leading to India's PE premium increasing to 110 percent and now, with the Chinese economy opening up, its equity market has been reviving, and the huge divergence between the FTSE India and EM market is now shrinking,” added Chadawar.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2023 09:18 AM IST with headline  Mutual funds increased exposure to these sub-sectors lately. Do you own any?
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2023 07:03 AM IST with headline  Why past returns are not a good measure to identify the best debt fund is: 
 Representative image. When most financial planners recommend debt funds these days to their clients, why are investors running scared? Data from the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI; the mutual fund industry’s trade body) shows that in 11 out of 16 categories, debt funds saw net outflows (more money went out than came in) of Rs 10,316 crore in January 2023.Perhaps it’s the way many investors pick financial instruments, especially mutual funds. According to Value Research, short-term debt funds returned just 4.37 percent over the past 1-year period. Government Securities or gilt funds gave a 2.85 percent return.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLet’s look at it the other way. If you had invested in debt funds (say, a short-term fund) at the beginning of 2021 or 2022, you would have earned returns of just 4.35 percent and 4.1 percent, respectively.Instead, if you had invested in a bank FD, you could have easily earned at least 5 percent. More, if you had invested in a private sector bank’s or small finance bank’s FD.The situation was far worse in the case of gilt funds, as they delivered 2.19 percent and 2.15 percent, on average, in CY2021 and CY2022, respectively.
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2023 07:19 PM IST with headline  GST Intelligence investigates at least 10 mutual fund houses for wrongful expense claims is: 
 The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) has sent letters of inquiry to about 10-12 mutual fund houses, seeking details of transactions that were found to be dubious, CNBC-TV18 reported government sources as saying.The GST Intelligence found the fund houses possibly booked expenditures that they claimed input tax credit (ITC) wrongfully to reduce their GST liability, it said.Story continues below AdvertisementDGGI estimates the liability to be around Rs 500 crore, it said.Moneycontrol couldn’t independently verify the report.The DGGI said the discrepancies in accounting were found in the accounting books in 2017 and 2018, during which the AMCs claimed ITC on expenses capped at 2.25 percent of assets under management (AUM).Mutual funds allegedly booked the expenses as capital expenditure to claim ITC. The GST Intelligence is now seeking the recovery of these wrongfully claimed credits, sources said
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2023 12:53 PM IST with headline  How flexi cap became the largest category in equities in 2022 is: 
 A flexi cap fund must have at least 65 percent of its total assets invested in equities. Newly introduced flexi cap funds became the largest category among equity mutual funds, overtaking large caps at the end of the quarter ended December 2022, according to a report by Morningstar India.The flexi cap category was introduced by the capital markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in November 2020. These funds invest in companies across the market capitalisation spectrum, i.e. large cap, mid cap, and small cap stocks.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA flexi cap fund must have at least 65 percent of its total assets invested in equities.Data shows that Assets Under Management (AUM) of flexi cap funds have grown about 70 percent since they were introduced in November 2020.Notably, schemes such as Quant Flexi Cap, PGIM India Flexi Cap, HSBC Flexi Cap, Bank of India Flexi Cap, Parag Parikh Flexi Cap and Canara Rob Flexi Cap Fund registered higher growth in AUM since the category was introduced.
 
The news published on the date February 18, 2023 09:34 AM IST with headline  Six fixed income investments that outshine in this uncertain interest rate scenario
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2023 07:28 AM IST with headline  Where to invest Rs 10 lakh today? Don’t lose faith in US tech stocks, says Rajeev Thakkar of Parag Parikh MF is: 
 Rajeev Thakkar, Chief Investment Officer and Associate Director, PPFAS Asset Management Private Limited Rajeev Thakkar manages the Parag Parikh Flexi Cap Fund (PPFCF). About Rs 5,000 crore —25-30 percent — of its corpus is allocated to foreign stocks, the largest of all overseas-focused mutual fund schemes. Only Motilal Oswal Nasdaq fund’s corpus matches the international allocation of PPFCF, but that is a dedicated international fund.PPFCF, though, is a diversified equity fund that invests at least 65 percent in Indian equities. The fund house, which vowed not to launch multiple schemes and instead have a single diversified equity fund that does everything, has stuck to its word. But the year 2022 has challenged its principles.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat year, information technology stocks in the US fell sharply. That, in turn, led to a fall in the net asset value of PPFCF.Further, in early 2022, the limits allowed to fund houses to invest abroad got exhausted. What was initially thought to be a temporary phase has now become a year-long deadlock. The Reserve Bank of India still hasn’t enhanced these limits. As a result, fund houses based in India cannot invest fresh money abroad. They can only reinvest the money generated out of sale of shares abroad. This has hit mutual funds hard as overseas investments have become a popular part of an investor’s asset allocation.But Thakkar, Chief Investment Officer at PPFAS Asset Management, is looking ahead. In a conversation with Moneycontrol, he talks about why the US technology sector still looks bright. And he has some good ideas on where you should invest your money today.
 
The news published on the date February 11, 2023 10:45 PM IST with headline  SEBI invites EOIs for 'empanelment of forensic auditors' for MFs, AMCs, trustee companies is: 
 With MF industry scaling new highs, unitholders' protection assumes even greater significance, SEBI had said on Feb 10 (Image: Reuters) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on February 11 issued an advertisement, inviting expressions of interest (EOIs) for the "empanelment of forensic auditors" for mutual funds, asset management companies and trustee entities.The auditors, after being empanelled, would be in charge of "conducting a forensic audit of MFs, its AMCs, trustee companies or board of trustees", the capital markets regulator stated in its advertisement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe invitation of EOIs comes a day after SEBI proposed to increase the role and accountability of the trustees in a bid to safeguard unitholders' interest.In order to have an independent review mechanism for the decisions of AMC from the perspective of the unitholders' interest across all products and services, SEBI on February 10 proposed to mandate that a "Unit Holder Protection Committee (UHPC) should be constituted by board of AMC".In its consultation paper, the market watchdog has suggested that trustees of mutual funds should focus on market abuse by AMC, and its employees and mis-selling by the AMC to increase the asset base.
 
The news published on the date February 10, 2023 07:15 PM IST with headline  Why smaller towns took to equity mutual funds
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2023 01:24 PM IST with headline  Edelweiss MF, Kotak MF put restrictions on international funds is: 
 A flexi cap fund must have at least 65 percent of its total assets invested in equities. Asset management companies Edelweiss Mutual Fund and Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund have decided to temporarily suspend subscriptions in their international mutual funds.This comes days after Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das said that there was no proposal to increase the overseas investment limits for domestic mutual funds at the moment.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter underperforming over the past year, international funds recently started to put up a good show over the past three months.On a one-year basis, international funds have delivered an average return of -3 percent, however, on a three-month basis, it is the best-performing mutual fund category with an average return of 17 percent, as per data available with Value Research.In a notice dated February 9, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company said that it has decided to suspend the subscriptions in Kotak Nasdaq 100 Fund of Fund, an open-ended fund of fund investing in units of overseas ETFs and/or index fund based on Nasdaq 100 Index.
 
The news published on the date February 11, 2023 12:01 PM IST with headline  Union Budget's infra boost puts bank stocks in sweet spot; Here's what MFs are banking on
 
The news published on the date February 09, 2023 07:33 PM IST with headline  Beware! Axis Mutual Fund lists fake Telegram channels using its name is: 
 Axis Mutual Fund shared a list of fake channels and official channels, while noting that this is not an exhaustive list. (Representative image) Axis Mutual Fund on February 9 released a list of fake handles on social media platforms such as Telegram that are using the company's name, and cautioned investors against dealing with these fraudsters.In a public advisory, the private mutual fund company said: "The fraudsters are misrepresenting to the general public that they are associated or affiliated with the Fund by illegally and without authorization, using the trademark AXIS MUTUAL FUND and the logo , which are owned by the company and/or its affiliates."Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurther, the MF shared a list of fake channels and official channels, while noting that this is not an exhaustive list.The fake Telegram channels that are using our name and have come to our notice so far are as follows:@Axismutualfund_investment - 2,686 subscribers@AxisMutualFund – 117 subscribers@axismutualfund123 – 2 subscribers@AXISMUTUALFUNDLTD – 17 members@axismutualfund12@Mutual_Fund_Investments - 9491 members@moneydoubler23 – 387 members@AXIS_MUTUAL_FUND_INVESTMENT – 81 subscribers@AXIS_MUTUAL_FUND – 85 subscribers
 
The news published on the date February 09, 2023 02:30 PM IST with headline  Investors shrug off volatility, equity fund inflows surge 72% in January is: 
 Gold exchange-traded funds continued to outflows at Rs 199.43 crore. Investors continued to repose faith in equities as inflows into open-ended equity mutual funds surged 72 percent to Rs 12,546.51 crore in January even as the Indian market remained flat, data provided by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed on February 9.The systematic investment plan (SIP) book also remained strong as the inflows via this periodic investment vehicle jumped to Rs 13,856 crore, a fresh record high, during January 2023. The number was Rs 13,573 crore during December.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAkhil Chaturvedi, chief business officer, Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company, said, “Strong flows for the month supported by SIP inflows, despite a volatile month with markets being subdued the net positive flows is a sign of increasing maturity of investors to continue their allocations in equity mutual funds.”Also read | Check out Moneycontrol’s curated list of 30 investment-worthy mutual fund schemesThis is the 23rd straight month when the inflows into equity funds have remained positive. The benchmark equity indices the Sensex and the Nifty ended January 2 percent lower from the previous month.
 
The news published on the date February 10, 2023 09:31 AM IST with headline  RBI raises repo rate as expected, but does not hint at end to hikes is: 
 RBI MPC Rate Hike The six wise men and women comprising the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), met to deliberate and decide the course of interest rates in the country. The RBI Governor beamed up on television on February 8 morning, to announce the outcome. Most people in the market were expecting an interest rate hike of 25 basis points, i.e., 0.25 per cent. And this is exactly what happened.The interest rate increase we are talking about is on the repo rate, the rate at which the Reserve Bank of India funds banks, if required, one day at a time. It went up from 6.25 percent to 6.5 percent. This rate is the pivot for interest rates in the entire economy. A hike in the repo rate today, will lead to an increase in banks’ lending and deposit rates tomorrow.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPeople’s antennae were up, looking to gauge whether there was any hint the RBI was softening its stance, and to get a sense of which way it would go at its next meeting on 6 April, 2023. And on that, the RBI kept its options open.The rationaleThe reason the market was expecting signs of a pause in interest rate hikes is that inflation has eased. Consumer Price Inflation, which was 7.79 percent in April 2022, came down to 5.72 percent in December 2022. Real interest rates are positive now. The RBI repo rate, so far at 6.25 percent and 6.5 percent from now on, was higher than CPI inflation in December 2022, which was 5.72 percent. The one-year deposit rate at State Bank of India is 6.75 percent.
 
The news published on the date February 10, 2023 09:27 AM IST with headline  What should debt fund investors do as RBI hikes repo rate? is: 
 RBI Monetary Policy Interest rates are peaking, as is the mood on bond street. Though the monetary policy committee of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) decided to go with a 25-basis-point hike in the repo rate on February 8, the experts are vocal that the central bank is close to the peak in interest rates this cycle.Here’s how you can tweak your bond fund investments:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRepo rate hike and growthThe RBI announced a hike of 25 basis points in the repo rate on February 8, as envisaged by many experts earlier. The move is aimed at containing inflationary pressures in the economy, with a high-interest-rate regime. The MPC has taken note of the moderation in headline consumer inflation numbers in recent times. However, it highlighted various risks that may keep inflation elevated, including global commodity prices.“On the assumption of a normal monsoon, CPI inflation is projected at 5.3 percent for 2023-24, with Q1 at 5.0 percent, Q2 at 5.4 percent, Q3 at 5.4 percent and Q4 at 5.6 per cent,” said Shaktikanta Das, Governor, Reserve Bank of India.
 
The news published on the date February 08, 2023 06:42 AM IST with headline  Which target maturity fund will help you ride out RBI’s final rate hike(s)…and beyond? is: 
 It is pouring new fund offers (NFO) of target maturity funds (TMF) on mutual fund (MF) street. As many as 10 NFOs are on at the moment, as per data available with Value Research, that would mature as distant as in the year 2033. It appears that the year’s first monetary policy review by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on February 8 has not tempted fund houses to hold on for a little longer.That’s both, good and bad news for investors. The good part is: you are spoilt for choice. The not-so-good news is that with all these funds being passively-managed, all you have to choose is the tenure for which you need to stay invested. Your scheme’s portfolio composition is the next deciding factor.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut the question is: Should you wait for the RBI policy to pass and then perhaps wait for a few more days to see where bond yields are headed?Can Feb 8 RBI policy make any difference?As interest rates are nearing their peak, it could be the right time to lock in yields. A Balasubramanian, Managing Director & CEO, Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, expects a 25-basis- point (bps) rate hike in the upcoming monetary policy review. “As the risks from the external front and inflation have subsided recently, RBI can shift its focus back on “growth”. Beyond rate hikes, liquidity will be used as an active policy tool for 2023, and will be a larger driver of broad interest rate movement incrementally,” he said. A 25-bps increase will push the repo rate to 6.5 percent, which should be the terminal rate for the current rate cycle. “RBI should pause thereafter,” he added.
 
The news published on the date February 07, 2023 09:28 AM IST with headline  Retirement oriented mutual funds love these 15 small cap multibaggers
 
The news published on the date February 07, 2023 09:05 AM IST with headline  Govt and AAA-rated bonds, target maturity and short-term funds will shine in 2023 is: 
 Fixed income is an attractive asset class Bonds had a challenging 2022 with the widely used bond benchmark - Crisil Composite Bond Index - up only by about 3 percent, underperforming other major asset classes - gold (about 14 percent), equities (6 percent) and cash (5 percent).Bond yields rose to multi-year highs in 2022, as the RBI raised policy rates by 225 bps to 6.25 percent. The RBI along with other major global central banks tried to burnish its inflation-fighting credentials by signalling an aggressive pace of rate hikes, indicating its willingness to sacrifice growth to sustainably bring down inflation from multi-decade highs, leading to a spike in domestic and global bond yields. Bond gains were muted across major bond mutual fund categories with gilt funds, long-term duration funds and medium-term duration funds lagging other bond categories.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe worst may be behind for bond marketsOver the course of 2022, continued upward shifts in the market’s expectation of central banks’ terminal or peak policy rates given persistent and elevated inflationary pressures, was a key headwind for bonds. The global macroeconomic backdrop for 2023 is likely to be challenging. One of the fastest Fed interest rate hiking cycles on record makes a US economic recession very likely. We also expect a recession in Europe due to the energy price shock. An economic slowdown should help inflation cool significantly but not all the way back to the 2 percent target of the US Fed.In our assessment, India’s growth-inflation dynamics is stable and better than its peers. The post-pandemic economic recovery cycle remains strong amid supportive government policies and a pick-up in investments. Further, the likely broadening of the economic recovery to the rural economy and service sectors is a strong tailwind.
 
The news published on the date February 06, 2023 03:33 PM IST with headline  Opinion: 5 reasons why Budget 2023 will push India’s growth story, despite global gloom is: 
 Trideep Bhattacharya, CIO-Equities, Edelweiss AMC The Union Budget ahead of elections is always an event for financial markets, which fear that the finance minister may choose to go for populist announcements, and fiscal prudence may take a back seat. However, the Budget 2023 presented by Nirmala Sitharaman has been a landmark one which remained prudent but also paved the path for strong economic growth in the near future. And there are reasons to believe that this ‘Panchamrit’ Budget, though appears a non-event in terms of the absence of big-bang announcements, will go a long way as a propeller of India’s growth story. Let us understand five key enablers of the Union Budget 2023:Increased focus on capital creationStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCapital expenditure, a key variable tracked in a growth economy, is proposed at 3.3 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product, or at Rs 10 lakh crore. Just to put it in context, this is three times what was allocated for capital expenditure in FY2019-2020. The Indian government’s policy response to the economic slowdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic was centred on public expenditure. And this year’s 33 percent increase indicates better times ahead for infrastructure, capital goods, Railways and defence sectors in India.Increased focus on a housing recoveryHousing is an allied sector of core infrastructure in India. It also is a key employment generator. The Budget proposes higher allocation towards affordable housing compared to the last couple of years. This will be a big positive for housing finance companies, and other companies that directly or indirectly benefit from the expected boom phase in real estate.
 
The news published on the date February 03, 2023 07:16 AM IST with headline  Mutual Funds: Why investing in last year’s winner may prove to be a dud is: 
 Picking the best fund is a tough task If you look at the returns of equity mutual funds (MF) over the past several years, you will find one thing — no one fund will be among the top year after year. That is reasonably good proof for the oft-repeated disclaimer: “Past performance is no guarantee of future results.”But the fact is that investors chase performance. In any given year, the people who need to pick a fund will quite often pick schemes based on the past year’s returns, or look for schemes which are the table-toppers. They feel that if something has done well last year, it is bound to do well the next few years as well. But that is far from the truth. It is statistically impossible for a scheme (in a given fund category) to be the top performer of the category across market cycles and for several years continuously.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdI have come across people who start a 12-month SIP in a fund which has done the best in the past one year. After a year, once the SIP stops, they again pick another fund which did the best the following year and start a new SIP. This is unwise. Fund selection should never be based solely on near-term performance. There have been many instances where a fund that was in the bottom 10 percent in one year shot up to the top 10 percent the next. There have been several cases of the reverse too.Don’t just rely on past performanceSo, if you shouldn’t pick funds just based on past performance, then how to shortlist funds for your portfolio?
 
The news published on the date February 02, 2023 05:32 PM IST with headline  Budget 2023 : A growth budget that leads to lower deficit and capital expenditure should nudge RBI to stop rate hikes, Swarup Mohanty is: 
 Economic Survey 2023, the prelude to the budget, had already shown glimpses of the health of the economy with Gross Domestic Product growth this financial year pegged at around 6.5-7 percent and for FY 24 at 6.5 percent on domestic demand revival and an uptick in capital expenditure.It had been expected that the Budget for FY 24 will lean towards rewarding taxpayers and it did so.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe personal income tax announcements are indicative of the government's push towards the tax paying citizen to opt for the new tax regime announced in FY 20-21. This regime has now become the default regime and the new slabs are to nudge taxpayers to opt for it. The highest income tax rate has also been reduced to 39 percent (previously 42.74 percent).This means both small and high-income group taxpayers have some more cash at disposal at the expense of tax sops. This is a significant change from earlier regimes, investors would now have to plan for their finances for both short-term and long-term goals.They will have to own their financial independence and start investing across financial products. Hopefully this would bring more investors to the capital markets; this will also benefit economy at large and would result in more discretionary spending.
 
The news published on the date February 02, 2023 04:57 PM IST with headline  Budget 2023 | Sticks to fiscal discipline, avoids being populist, despite a year before elections, Pankaj Murarka is: 
 Budget 2023: The government has laid major emphasis on significantly accelerating capital expenditure as the cornerstone for driving growth. The finance minister has adopted a pragmatic pro-growth approach in Budget 2023-24 in setting the path for India’s transition from being the 5th largest global economy to the 3rd largest by the turn of this decade.The budget has been presented in the backdrop of a strong recovery in the Indian economy after being battered by Covid, recessionary headwinds for major global economies in 2023, and a turbulent global geo-political environment.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe budget recognises and acknowledges the emergence of the Indian economy as an oasis in the economically challenged global economic environment and the world is looking upon India to step up its role as the fastest-growing major economy. The government has taken a pragmatic approach towards this ambitious pursuit.Also read | Budget 2023: No big-bang announcements, incremental changes are biggest strengthsFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has focused on reinvigorating economic growth, yet done that with a long-term sustainable approach, avoiding falling prey to short term impulses, given that it was supposedly an election budget.
 
The news published on the date February 02, 2023 12:08 PM IST with headline  Budget 2023: MF investors should bet on sectoral, thematic funds that have turned attractive is: 
 The Budget running up to the general elections raised hopes and concerns around the possibility of it being borderline reckless and populist. Yet, the government decided to put fiscal prudence first. It is easy to mistake a simple Budget for an uneventful one but a deeper understanding of India’s current economic context and the government’s tight-rope walk would help one conclude that the best thing about such a Budget was the delivery of so many without breaking any.The Budget is a relatively well-rounded one, capturing most arenas critical to overall economic growth. The government has lived up to expectations around the commitment to capex and focus on socio-economic development while retaining fiscal prudence. Among many, the following segments are highlighted as ones forming the core of the government’s long-term socio-economic agenda.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad1. RailwaysAllocation to Railways has been increased by over 70 percent versus Budget Estimates of the previous year to Rs 2.4 lakh crore, its highest-ever outlay. For context, the amount is nine times earmarked to the sector in FY14. The increasing allocation and attention to Railways as a sector is important, especially considering its critical role in larger infrastructure, freight and logistics roadmaps.Key sectors & segments to benefit: Wagon manufacturing, rail engineering and railway financing.
 
The news published on the date February 03, 2023 08:52 AM IST with headline  Budget 2023’s infra gift to mutual funds: The mid- and small- cap stocks that infrastructure MFs love to hold
 
The news published on the date February 01, 2023 06:57 PM IST with headline  Budget 2023 deals a body blow to market-linked debentures is: 
 Market-linked debentures are listed securities and are currently being taxed as long-term capital gain (LTCG) at the rate of 10% without indexation. The Union Budget for 2023-24 on February 1 has said that the capital gains on market-linked debentures (MLDs) will now be taxed as short-term capital gains, a blow to high net-worth individuals and family offices.High net-worth individuals tend to pick MLDs, given the tax treatment they attract. Market-linked debentures are listed securities and at present, are being taxed as long-term capital gain (LTCG) at the rate of 10 percent without indexation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | Rs 7-lakh tax-free income limit, how does that play out for you?But according to the government, these securities are in the nature of derivatives, which are normally taxed at applicable rates. Further, they give variable interests as they are linked with the performance of the market.“One of the positive aspects of the Budget was to deal a body blow to market-linked debentures (MLDs), which had degenerated to instruments of blatant tax evasion, by taxing the capital gains generated at the rate of short-term capital gains,” Sandeep Bagla, Chief Executive Officer, TRUST Asset Management Company, said.
 
The news published on the date January 31, 2023 03:22 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey 2023: Mutual fund inflows slump 72% YoY during April-November period is: 
 Income or debt-oriented schemes saw net outflows of Rs 1.1 trillion until November of this financial year. Asset management companies witnessed significantly lower net inflows at Rs 70,000 crore during the April-November period of the financial year 2023 than last year on higher redemptions, said the Economic Survey 2023, which was tabled in Parliament on January 31.During the April-November period of the financial year 2022, Indian mutual funds saw net inflows of Rs 2.5 trillion. There were gross inflows of Rs 58.6 trillion, while redemptions were to the tune of Rs 56.1 trillion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | Economic survey: Insurance penetration improves, but most buy savings-linkedHowever, redemptions jumped to Rs 68.4 trillion during the first eight months of the current financial year, while there were gross inflows of Rs 69.1 trillion, the Economic Survey showed.During the whole of the financial year 2022, mutual funds witnessed net inflows of Rs 2.5 trillion and redemptions of Rs 90.7 trillion.
 
The news published on the date February 12, 2023 01:26 PM IST with headline  Four easy steps to make your 2023 profitable is: 
 Despite the roller-coaster ride Indian markets had in 2022, investor interest in equities continues to grow, with SIP inflows touching an all-time high in December. (Representative Image) Those who went by the 2021 craze for cryptocurrencies and international investing suffered because they went by past returns.In 2022, investors saw why anything in excess is bad and how uncertainty is very much a part of our lives. It was a year of rising interest rates, high inflation and the meltdown in cryptocurrencies. The days of making quick money became a distant memory.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis is my assessment of how investors managed finances in 2022:The goodDespite the roller-coaster ride Indian markets had in 2022, investor interest in equities continues to grow, with SIP inflows touching an all-time high in December. In my sessions, I find young investors keen to participate in equities and thankfully staying away from investment-linked insurance plans. It is good to see the focus on growing wealth and the ability to take on some risk.
 
The news published on the date January 31, 2023 10:56 AM IST with headline  HDFC Mutual Fund discontinues cash investments: What you should know is: 
 Representative image. HDFC Mutual Fund said it will stop accepting cash as a means of payment for investment in units of its schemes from January 30. Most fund houses do not accept cash for purchase of mutual fund units. Here’s what you should know.Why stop cash as a means of payment?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMutual fund investors can pay for mutual fund units using internet banking and various online transfer modes. Investors can also issue cheques drawn on the bank accounts mapped to their mutual fund folios. They must declare that the payments are made using funds from their bank accounts and not of third-party funds or instruments.However, the Securities and Exchange Board of India had allowed mutual fund houses to accept cash as a means of payment, subject to a limit of Rs 50,000 per year per investor at the fund house level. Such investors must comply with know-your-client requirements and also need to furnish their bank account details while opening the folio.Though the cash facility has been around for many years, experts said there are few takers for it.
 
The news published on the date February 01, 2023 07:09 AM IST with headline  Beyond Budget: Five changes in the financial landscape this February you need to consider is: 
 Tax optimisation should always be a part of your financial planning exercise and not a task to be completed towards the end of the financial year.(Representative image) We are sometime away from the next financial year but there are several changes this month on the financial front along with tax planning on which you may need to act.Whether you have an existing loan or plan to take one keep an eye on the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) policy announcement. Using debit and credit cards? Some banks have effected important changes this month that will pinch your purse.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStart your tax planning if haven’t startedTax optimisation should always be a part of your financial planning exercise and not a task to be completed towards the end of the financial year. If you haven’t started with your tax planning, then do it now as we are just two months away from March 31, the end of the financial year. Invest wisely, considering your financial goals. You can achieve your tax planning goals by investing in existing commitments, which might include your public provident fund (PPF), National Pension Scheme (NPS), Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY), monthly SIP in equity linked savings scheme (ELSS), employees provident fund (EPF) or life insurance premium.Buy health insurance to get additional tax benefits under Section 80D of the Income-Tax Act, up to Rs 25,000 each for self, spouse and children. The same limit of Rs 25,000 is applicable for your parents as well, if they aren’t senior citizens, yet.
 
The news published on the date January 30, 2023 10:56 AM IST with headline  Edelweiss MF launches India’s first passive short-term index fund; Will it work? is: 
 The NFO for Edelweiss CRISIL IBX 50:50 Gilt Plus SDL Short Duration Index Fund opened on January 27. Edelweiss Asset Management has launched a new fund offer (NFO) for India's first open-ended passive short-duration index scheme. Called Edelweiss CRISIL IBX 50:50 Gilt Plus SDL Short Duration Index Fund, the scheme will invest in a diversified portfolio of Indian Government Bonds (IGBs) and State Development Loans (SDLs).The NFO for Edelweiss CRISIL IBX 50:50 Gilt Plus SDL Short Duration Index Fund opened on January 27, 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEdelweiss Mutual Fund is a leader in the passive debt fund category with the highest market share managing assets of over Rs 68,000 crore (as on December 31, 2022).What’s on offer?The scheme will invest 50 percent of its funds in IGBs and the rest in SDLs. The G-Sec portion will be constructed by selecting the most liquid government bonds with a minimum outstanding of Rs 10,000 crore falling in duration buckets from one year to five years.
 
The news published on the date January 30, 2023 09:18 AM IST with headline  40 percent rise in 3 months: Can China-focused funds sustain the rally? is: 
 The arrival of the Omicron variant in China caused its economy to slow during most of 2022. Driven by a quick rebound in economic activity and an expected sustained growth momentum in upcoming months, China-focussed funds in India have gained up to 40 percent in the past three months.However, this has come against the backdrop of a 30-40 percent yearly fall in these funds’ net asset value (NAV) from January 2022 till the end of October.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere are four funds in India specifically focusing on China. These are Axis Greater China Equity Fund of Fund, Edelweiss Greater China Equity Offshore, Mirae Asset Hang Seng TECH Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF) and Nippon India ETF Hang Seng BeES.The recent turnaround has been dramatic. On a one-year basis, Mirae Asset Hang Seng TECH ETF has been the worst performer with a fall of 16 percent, till January 20, 2023. But it has been the best performer on the last three-month basis (up 44 percent), as per data available with Value Research.Edelweiss Greater China Equity Offshore, which is the biggest China-focused fund (assets of Rs 1,730 crore), has delivered 32 percent return over the last three months.
 
The news published on the date January 28, 2023 11:35 AM IST with headline  MC Exclusive: Sebi may force large mutual fund houses to lower fees is: 
 SEBI is contemplating reducing a mutual fund's Total Expense ratio, for larger fund houses Capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) is planning to prevent large mutual fund (MF) houses from charging high expense ratios.In December 2022, the market regulator announced that it has initiated an internal study to re-look at the expenses that fund houses charge unitholders.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol has now learnt that Sebi may put a threshold on the overall equity assets under management (AUM) of fund houses to determine the expense ratio it can charge its investors.For instance, if a fund house’s equity AUM is Rs 50,000 crore (a figure that Sebi appears to be ideating around), then the fund house’s existing schemes as well as new schemes would be made to charge a lower expense ratio, compared to what they are qualified for under the present norms.Moneycontrol has learnt that the new expense ratio for such fund houses may likely be either 1.25 percent or 1.50 percent.
 
The news published on the date January 28, 2023 07:23 AM IST with headline  Equity mutual funds to adopt T+2 redemption payment cycle from Feb 1 is: 
 Up till now, mutual funds were following the T+3 redemption payment cycle. In a move to benefit mutual fund investors, all asset management companies (AMCs) in India will move to T+2 — shorthand for "trade date plus two days" — redemption payment cycle for equity schemes from February.In an announcement on January 27, the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) said that the move will be implemented uniformly with effect from February 1, 2023, (i.e., for all transactions received before cut off timing on February 1, 2023, and processed at closing NAV for February 1 2023) after allowing a couple of days for the settlement cycle /process to stabilise.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe announcement has come on the heels of Indian equity markets moving to a T+1 settlement cycle for all stocks, shortening the settlement cycle by a day and making the availability of funds a day sooner than at present.Also read | Is your mutual fund house making money? The real story behind AMC earningsCommenting on the development, A Balasubramanian, managing director and chief executive officer, Aditya Birla Mutual Fund and chairman, AMFI, said, “T+1 settlement cycle for Indian equity markets is a global first. As an industry, we want to pass on the benefit to our mutual fund investors and hence we are proactively adopting a T+2 redemption payment cycle for equity funds.”
 
The news published on the date February 01, 2023 08:20 AM IST with headline  Budget 2023: Will there be a rise in exemption limit for long-term capital gains tax?
 
The news published on the date February 12, 2023 12:59 PM IST with headline  Beyond Nifty 500 | The smallcap, microcap favourites of active fund managers
 
The news published on the date January 24, 2023 09:10 AM IST with headline  Did your balanced advantage fund protect you from volatility last year? is: 
 In the year of 2022, the S&P BSE Sensex touched a low of 51,360 and a high of 63,284, and delivered just 4 percent returns in the calendar year. How do you make money amid such volatility? Balanced advantage funds were touted as one of the solutions.These funds invest across equity and debt markets, but toggle between the two depending on the valuations. The beauty of Balanced Advantage funds (BAF) or dynamic asset allocation funds as they also called, is that they give you a tax advantage as the net exposure in equities is at least 65 percent. The raw equity exposure could go down to as low as 30 percent (if fund managers believe that equity markets are over-valued), but they use derivatives to bring up the equity exposure to qualify as an equity fund, from a tax point of view.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDid BAFs deliver? Short-term returns can show a big divergence like they did in 2022.In 2022, 10 of the largest schemes in the category returned between 2-20 percent. Such a variance can make it challenging when deciding which BAF to pick for your long-term portfolio.
 
The news published on the date January 24, 2023 05:11 PM IST with headline  Corporate Crossings | Manish Gunwani to replace Anoop Bhaskar as Head of Equity at IDFC MF is: 
 Representative image. IDFC Asset Management Company is all set to see a change in higher management as Manish Gunwani, who was earlier with Nippon Life India Asset Management, will replace Anoop Bhaskar as Head – Equity at the mutual fund house, industry sources said.IDFC Asset Management Company on January 24, 2022 confirmed the appointment of Gunwani. On January 23, Moneycontrol was the first to report on Gunwani joining IDFC Mutual Fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGunwani has over 25 years of rich experience, covering the entire gamut of equity research as well as fund management.In November last year, Nippon India Mutual Fund had announced that Gunwani would be leaving the company after a stint of over five years. Gunwani, who was chief investment officer (CIO) – equity, had led a team of over 28 investment professionals at the AMC.He was earlier managing key schemes such as Nippon India Flexi Cap Fund, Nippon India Growth Fund and Nippon India Balanced Advantage Fund. The fund house had elevated Sailesh Raj Bhan as its CIO – Equity.
 
The news published on the date January 25, 2023 09:40 AM IST with headline  Is your mutual fund house making money? The real story behind AMC earnings is: 
 An analysis of profit & loss data, shared by CRISIL, shows that 25 of the 42 fund houses made profits in Financial Year (FY) 2021-22, down from 28 a year earlier. The Indian mutual fund industry has grown significantly in the last few years with its average assets under management (AAUM) growing over 74% since the March quarter of 2018 to Rs 40.26 trillion in the October-December 2022 period.But, not all fund houses have made profits. An analysis of profit & loss data, shared by CRISIL, shows that 25 of the 42 fund houses made profits in Financial Year (FY) 2021-22, down from 28 a year earlier.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe accounting years followed by Mirae MF and Franklin Templeton MF are different; Mirae follows a January-December financial year, while Franklin Templeton follows an October-September financial year.IIFCL MF and IL&FS MF, which are infrastructure debt funds, weren’t considered for this story.Also read | Looking back at 2022: The best and the worst sectoral mutual funds
 
The news published on the date January 20, 2023 09:49 AM IST with headline  WhiteOak Capital Balanced Advantage Fund NFO: Should you invest? is: 
 WOBAF is an open-ended dynamic asset allocation scheme investing in equities (65-100%), arbitrage (0-50%), and debt or cash in the range of 0-35% with the weight of net equities in the range of 30-80%. Balanced Advantage Funds have been one of the most popular categories in the Rs 40 trillion Indian mutual fund (MF) industry in the past year, with inflows worth Rs 11,658 crore. New entrant WhiteOak Capital Asset Management wants a piece of it, and has launched its seventh mutual fund scheme, a balanced advantage fund, in the Indian market.Called WhiteOak Capital Balanced Advantage Fund (WOBAF), the scheme will switch between equities and debt assets. The new fund offer (NFO) opens on January 20, 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat is on offer?WOBAF is an open-ended dynamic asset allocation scheme investing in equities (65-100%), arbitrage (0-50%), and debt or cash in the range of 0-35% with the weight of net equities in the range of 30-80%.The scheme’s allocation will be higher in equities when valuations are low and lower when valuations are high.
 
The news published on the date January 22, 2023 01:16 PM IST with headline  These 14 midcap winners make it to largecap hotlist for best returns
 
The news published on the date January 18, 2023 11:33 AM IST with headline  Budget 2023: Will FM Nirmala Sitharaman allow mutual funds to manage insurance money? is: 
 Nirmala Sitharaman The Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI) has proposed that the Union Budget 2023-24 should allow fund houses to outsource their fund management activities to other market-linked instrument providers like insurance companies.We are used to Mutual Fund Asset Management Companies (MF AMCs) as vehicles for management of funds, for unit-holders. A multitude of unit-holders would pool their investments by purchasing units in the funds / schemes offered by the AMC and the AMC would manage the investments as per mandate. This is the structure on which the industry runs. Now, let us look at the structure and symbiosis of the macro system.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | Everything you need to know about Budget 2023When mutual funds become service providersAny expertise developed by any organisation or system can be put to multiple usage, leading to synergies. Same is the case with AMCs. AMCs in India, with firewalls but under the same group umbrella, offer fund management to their foreign counterparts for their India-dedicated funds. This is prevalent for global fund management houses with presence in India.
 
The news published on the date January 16, 2023 11:33 AM IST with headline  Sponsor-less AMCs possible in India? SEBI thinks yes; calls for opinions is: 
 From allowing private equity funds to become sponsors, to allowing sponsor-less fund houses or a new breed of sponsors, SEBI mulls reimagining the role of the sponsor in the Indian mutual funds industry In what could be one of its most radical decisions since it set up mutual fund guidelines in 1996, the capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has proposed to change the role of a mutual fund's sponsor.On January 13, SEBI floated a consultation paper seeking public opinion on broadly four big items: Whether private equity funds can be allowed become sponsors; whether the existing criteria to set up sponsors should be strengthened; whether new type of sponsors- albeit those that don’t have the traditional net-worth or profitability requirement- can be allowed; and whether sponsors are required at all, for well-established and long-running asset management companies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA new class of sponsorsSEBI feels that it’s time for Private Equity (PE) funds to enter the Rs 40 trillion Indian Mutual Funds (MF) industry. “The Working Group noted that PE with significant capital can invest in technology, bring in strategic guidance and good talent to fuel growth and innovation and expand the presence of mutual funds including driving inclusive growth. PE may also provide constructive competition to the current entities in the Mutual Fund industry and improve value to investors,” says SEBI in its consultation paper.This comes a year after Blackstone, a major PE giant was said to have evinced interest, as per numerous media reports, in acquitting the erstwhile IDFC AMC. Eventually, Bandhan Bank acquired IDFC MF, worth Rs 1.20 trillion in assets under management (AUM) in April 2022, a deal that got completed in around December 2022.
 
The news published on the date January 13, 2023 10:27 PM IST with headline  BSE StAR MF accounts for 76% of net equity inflow, 50% of new SIP in December is: 
 BSE StAR MF had also contributed new SIP registration of 50 per cent, which is 11.67 lakh against the total new SIP registration of 23.24 lakh in December 2022, the exchange said in a release. (Representative image) Leading stock exchange BSE on Friday said its mutual fund distribution platform StAR MF accounted for 76 per cent of the net equity inflow in December.The platform had contributed Rs 5,515 crore of mutual fund investments compared to the industry's net equity inflow of Rs 7,303 crore in December.BSE StAR MF had also contributed new SIP registration of 50 per cent, which is 11.67 lakh against the total new SIP registration of 23.24 lakh in December 2022, the exchange said in a release.It has also processed 37.75 lakh transactions on December 12, 2022, surpassing its previous best single-day record of 34.29 lakh transactions on October 10, 2022.In December, BSE StAR MF processed a monthly highest record of 2.44 crore transactions against its previous best of 2.32 crore transactions in November 2022.Overall, the platform recorded 18.72 crore transactions in the first nine months of FY23 against 18.47 crore transactions in FY22.The platform also registered a network of over 74,101 distributors in India. Since the launch of its mobile app BSE StAR MF, the distributors have processed over 94.95 lakh transactions worth Rs 25,746 crore as of December 2022.Story continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date January 14, 2023 09:12 AM IST with headline  Gold prices are at an all-time high: What should be your strategy? is: 
 In international markets, gold prices firmed up above the key $1,900 level, hitting their highest since late April 2022. Gold prices in the Indian market hit an all-time high level on January 12 after data showed that the US inflation eased last month, boosting hopes that the Federal Reserve would slow the pace of interest rate hikes.Usually, gold prices fall when interest rates rise, while a decrease in rates helps keep gold high.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLocal gold futures price rose to Rs 56,245 per 10 grams, surpassing the previous record of Rs 56,191 hit in August 2020, when the bullion had benefitted from the economic uncertainty due to COVID-induced lockdowns.Fears of recession and rising interest rates led to a fall in stock prices in the developed world. At the same time, the fall of cryptocurrencies prompted investors to move toward safe haven. That spurred the demand for gold.The Fed factor
 
The news published on the date January 13, 2023 08:10 AM IST with headline  Where to invest Rs 10 lakh today? Tata MF’s Rahul Singh is betting on these 3 sectors is: 
 Rahul Singh, Chief Investment Officer - Equities at Tata Mutual Fund recommends a 60% allocation to equities and 40% to bonds at this time. The Rs 40-trillion Indian mutual funds (MF) industry has seen many instances of fund managers moving on to set up their own portfolio management service (PMS) or alternate investment fund (AIF) offices.Tracking net asset values (NAV) on a daily basis, performances on a monthly basis, trying to keep ahead of intense competition, and meeting investor expectations consistently can be daunting for fund managers after a while.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSometimes, all these can lead to having to take short-term calls on portfolios. Since PMS and AIFs come with lock-in periods in some cases, and both call for higher minimal investment values compared to mutual funds, investors understand the need to stick around and be patient. MFs, on the other hand, see a lot more frequent inflows and outflows.But Rahul Singh, Chief Investment Officer - Equities at Tata Mutual Fund, is an exception. After having spent nearly two decades outside the Indian MF industry and having set up an AIF named Ampersand Capital Investment Advisors LLP, Singh moved to Tata Asset Management Co Ltd in June 2018. Here, he heads equity funds.Singh started his career at CRISIL Ltd, one of India’s premier credit agencies as an analyst. Later, he worked at Citibank’s institutional research division, and then at Standard Chartered Securities, a part of Standard Chartered Bank, as an analyst.
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2023 06:29 PM IST with headline  Top 5 PMS schemes bet big on 25 stocks that dare volatility, outsmart Nifty is: 
 For the week, the BSE Sensex lost 159.18 points, or 0.26 percent, to close at 60,682.7, while the Nifty50 ended flat at 17,856.5. 2022 belonged to Indian equities as the local market outperformed most global and emerging markets by a notable margin despite multiple headwinds such as the Russia-Ukraine geopolitical crisis, policy tightening, rising inflation, and volatile FII funds flow.India's benchmark index posted a ended the year with a growth of 4.3 percent, while the S&P 500 and Emerging Market indices tanked by 19 percent and 20 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“It was a year of time and price consolidation as large FII selling was countered by strong DII investments, amply supported by robust SIP inflows into mutual funds,” Gopal Kavalireddi, Head of Research at FYERS, told Moneycontrol.Foreign institutions pulled out nearly Rs 2.78 lakh crore during the calendar year from Indian equity markets. Domestic institutions countered the exodus by picking up equities worth over Rs 2.76 lakh crore.Retail investors stayed disciplined with their equity allocations, infusing almost Rs 1.5 lakh crore into various mutual fund schemes during the year, pointed out Kavalireddi.
 
The news published on the date January 12, 2023 09:46 AM IST with headline  Aditya Birla MF’s multi-asset fund offers diversification in a single fund: Should you invest? is: 
 As per the scheme note, the fund may invest in foreign securities, including overseas gold ETFs, up to 20% of the net assets of the fund. Aditya Birla Sun Life Asset Management Company (AMC) has launched a new schemes that’ll toggle between assets to offer diversification across asset classes. Called Aditya Birla Sun Life Multi Asset Allocation Fund (ABMAAF), it will invest across equities, debt and commodities.What’s on offerStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe equity portion of the portfolio in the scheme will follow a flexi-cap approach with large cap bias and can invest across sectors or themes. Fixed income portfolio will largely use the accrual strategy, which focuses on earning interest income in terms of coupon offered by bonds.The allocation in the scheme would be equity (65-80%), fixed income (10-25%) and commodities (10-25%). The scheme would invest in commodities through exchange-traded funds (ETFs) based on gold and silver.“The fund attempts to invest in a diversified portfolio of high-quality debt and money market securities to generate income with relatively minimal credit risk,” says A Balasubramanian, managing director and chief executive officer, Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC.
 
The news published on the date January 21, 2023 02:20 PM IST with headline  Fixed deposits or debt mutual funds: Where to invest when interest rates rise? is: 
 Fixed deposit investors are a pampered lot these days. With the Reserve Bank of India having hiked repo rates a number of times in recent months, banks too have been increasing FD rates for depositors. Every day, there is news of some bank or the other increasing FD rates. Many large private banks now offer about 7 percent on one-year FDs.If we compare this with the average debt fund returns of various categories over the past 1-2 years, it’s natural for many savers to feel they should just stick to good old bank FDs. But it is not the correct approach. I will explain why.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe RBI has been hiking interest rates to tame inflation. When policy interest (repo) rates rise, bond prices fall because they are inversely related. As a result, the net asset values (NAV) of debt funds holding bonds also fall. As NAV falls, past returns naturally start looking poor as of today.However, there is a positive effect as well when interest rates are increased – not immediately, but over the next few months/quarters. And the positive here is that the YTM (yield-to-maturity) of these bonds starts rising. This means that potential returns start going up.Will debt funds continue to be in a slump?
 
The news published on the date January 11, 2023 01:48 PM IST with headline  Forget interest rate cuts in CY2023, go slow on long-duration MFs, says Sandeep Bagla of Trust MF is: 
 As interest rates get closer to their peak levels, mutual funds are slowly but surely turning their attention towards bond funds. Trust Mutual Fund, India’s 37th largest fund house with assets of around Rs 1,126 crore, announced the launch of a new fund, Trust Corporate Bond Fund, on January 10. The scheme will invest in high-quality bonds at a time when interest rates are rising and developed economies are staring at a recession.Sandeep Bagla, Chief Executive Officer of Trust Mutual Fund, shared his views with Moneycontrol on key questions faced by mutual fund investors. Edited excerpts:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHas the time come for interest rates to be cut? Will the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cut interest rates in CY2023?No central bank worth its salt is going to cut interest rates in CY2023.In the US, recession is a possibility, in Europe, recession is a certainty and in India recession is out of the question. The message we are getting from central bankers is ‘higher for longer’. They are going to keep interest rates high for a longer period of time because the biggest worry today is services inflation.
 
The news published on the date January 10, 2023 03:00 PM IST with headline  Equity inflows jump three times to Rs 7,303 crore in December is: 
 This is 22nd straight month when the inflows into equity funds have remained positive. Inflows into open-ended equity mutual funds jumped three times to Rs 7,303.39 crore in December from the previous month, as investors added to positions amid weakness in the market, data provided by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) shows.This is the 22nd straight month when the inflows into equity funds remained positive. The Sensex slipped close to 4 percent in December.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Essentially, investors believe that India story is intact and they feel that markets will go up ahead, so they are getting ahead of the curve and investing money,” AMFI chief executive NS Venkatesh said.“Investors will continue to invest in the India growth story through the mutual fund route over the near future. Investors are looking forward to a growth-oriented budget, which should have a positive impact on the markets," he added.In November, investors were a bit jittery about pricey valuations and inflows into the equity funds slumped to Rs 2,258 crore against Rs 9,390 crore in October.
 
The news published on the date January 10, 2023 02:30 PM IST with headline  Will L&T Mutual Fund’s acquisition inject fresh life into HSBC India MF? Its co-CEO weighs in is: 
 Kailash Kulkarni, Co-Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Mutual Fund In November 2022, HSBC Mutual Fund completed the acquisition of L&T Mutual Fund, making the combined entity the 14th biggest asset management company (AMC) in India, with assets under management (AUM) of Rs 85,839 crore at the end of December 2022.HSBC Mutual Fund has absorbed the entire team of L&T Mutual Fund, and the CEOs of the two fund houses — Kailash Kulkarni and Ravindran Menon — have been designated co-CEOs of the combined entity.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith insipid performance, the going has been tough for HSBC Mutual Fund for the past many years. The fund house appeared to be in the throes of an existential crisis. Will this acquisition be enough to inject life into the fund house?Also read | Check out Moneycontrol’s curated list of 30 investment-worthy mutual fund schemesMoneycontrol talked to Kulkarni about the company’s immediate targets, the underperformance of its schemes, the rationale behind the merger, and his plans to crack the tough Indian mutual fund (MF) market:
 
The news published on the date January 15, 2023 10:36 PM IST with headline  Budget 2023: Mutual funds ask for tax parity with insurance and listed bonds
 
The news published on the date January 10, 2023 08:38 AM IST with headline  Here are the favourite mid-cap and small-cap stocks of sectoral mutual funds
 
The news published on the date January 11, 2023 11:27 AM IST with headline  Why mid and small-caps are poised for a good run in 2023 is: 
 As 2023 begins, it is perhaps useful to gaze back and look for trends in equity and category returns. An investor hopes that such trends may help in building a strategy for the next three years.The last three years were quite eventful. From a longer perspective, how have the mid- and small-cap segments fared relative to large caps over differing lengths of times?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad Mid-cap and small-cap funds are more volatile than large-cap funds, but they should be part of your portfolioPast performance can deter future outperformanceMid-caps have clearly delivered better returns over the long term. This relative outperformance holds true even on a risk-adjusted basis. This illustrates the need for an investor, especially a young one, to have a healthy exposure to mid-caps in her portfolio.
 
The news published on the date January 06, 2023 09:21 AM IST with headline  IIFL Finance NCD issue offering up to 9% yield opens; should you invest? is: 
 The NBFC will issue secured NCDs worth Rs 100 crore, with a green-shoe option to retain oversubscription of up to Rs 900 crore, aggregating to a total of Rs 1,000 crore. Non-banking financial company (NBFC) IIFL Finance Ltd on 6 December launched its public issue of secured non-convertible debentures (NCDs) to raise up to Rs 1,000 crore.IIFL Finance’s offerings include home loans, gold loans, business loans, including loans against property, and medium and small enterprise financing, microfinance, construction and real estate finance, and capital market finance, catering to both retail and corporate clients.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Fairfax-backed NBFC will issue secured NCDs worth Rs 100 crore, with a green-shoe option to retain oversubscription of up to Rs 900 crore, aggregating to a total of Rs 1,000 crore. The allotment will be made on first-come, first-served basis.The NCDs offer the highest effective yield of 9 percent per annum for a tenor of 60 months. The NCDs are available in tenors of 24, 36 and 60 months. The frequency of interest payment is monthly, annually, and on maturity (60 months), while for other tenors it is annually and on maturity.
 
The news published on the date January 05, 2023 08:54 AM IST with headline  How to choose the right ETF is: 
 The Indian equity markets have been on a steady rise after the Covid hit. Consequently, the ETFs also witnessed record-breaking inflows during the same period. Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) have become a popular investing tool for many investors and have come a long way from when they started their journey in India two decades ago. The universe of ETFs has grown rapidly in the last few years.The Indian equity markets have been on a steady rise after the Covid hit. Consequently, the ETFs also witnessed record-breaking inflows during the same period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the latest data on the Association of Mutual Funds in India’s (AMFI) website, between December 2021 and September 2022, the assets under management (AUM) of ETFs jumped by around 18% to Rs 4.75 trillion. However, the AUM jumped by 207.43% from March 2020 to September 2022.From the first ETF listing in 2002, India today has 152 ETFs listed on the National Stock Exchange of India (NSE), offering a huge array of investment choices.With so many ETFs in the market, the question is: how do you decide which one to choose?
 
The news published on the date January 05, 2023 01:12 PM IST with headline  Eight small-caps become mid-cap stocks on AMFI list. MFs to queue up soon
 
The news published on the date January 04, 2023 08:32 AM IST with headline  Some midcap favourites of fund managers deliver up to 124% returns in one year
 
The news published on the date January 04, 2023 01:07 PM IST with headline  Why are AMC stocks under pressure even as equity MFs see strong inflows? is: 
 Representative image Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook The mutual fund industry is going from strength to strength. Last year (2022) turned out to be spectacular for the MF industry with asset under management (AUM) crossing a record high of Rs 40 lakh crore as of November, around a two-fold increase in a span of 5 years. (image) The growth in AUM was aided by an expanding domestic economy, robust inflows, and rising investor participation, particularly individuals. The AUM growth was also boosted by the rise in equity..
 
The news published on the date January 02, 2023 06:59 PM IST with headline  Explained: How direct plans carved a niche in the Indian mutual fund industry
 
The news published on the date January 02, 2023 03:54 PM IST with headline  Direct plans of mutual funds turn 10. What worked and what didn’t is: 
 Direct plans of mutual fund schemes turned 10 on January 1, 2023. Hailed as one of the biggest reforms in the Rs 40 trillion Indian Mutual Fund (MF) industry, direct plans were aimed at reducing costs for investors when it comes to investing in MFs.When introducing direct plans in 2013,capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had rightly said that if an investor wants to invest directly with the fund house, and doesn’t want to avail of a distributor’s services, she shouldn’t pay distributor fees.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat gave birth to the direct plan; an identical plan of a mutual fund scheme, but without the distributor fees embedded.Everything else about the scheme -- the investment cost other than distributor commission, portfolios, taxation status, risk profile--remained the same. SEBI mandated all schemes to launch a direct plan.For those who wanted to go through a mutual fund distributor(MFD), the existing plan- rechristened a regular plan--continued.
 
The news published on the date December 30, 2022 11:06 AM IST with headline  What happens if your mutual fund SIP gets cancelled? is: 
 Systematic investment plans (SIPs) have emerged as a popular means to invest in mutual funds, especially equity funds. In November 2022, a sum of Rs 13,306 crore was invested through 6.04 crore SIP accounts in various mutual funds schemes. While it is a significant number, many investors see their investment plans suffer when some of their SIP mandates do not go through due to insufficient funds in the bank account.SIP cancellationsStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMost investors look at SIP as a tool to invest for the long term and build wealth over a long period of time. However, there are situations which lead to cancellations of the SIP. The reasons could be loss of income, poor performance of schemes and changed financial goals among others.When the fund house presents the SIP debit mandate to the bank of the investor, the funds get transferred from the bank account of the investor to the bank account of the mutual fund house. However, when such debit mandates fail due to a lack of sufficient funds in the bank account of the investor, the units are not allotted to the investor. It is an industry-wide practice that if three consecutive SIP debits are not honoured due to a lack of sufficient funds, then the SIP stands cancelled. In a recent addendum issued by PGIM India Mutual Fund, the fund house made it clear that four consecutive failures of SIP due to a lack of funds in the bank account of the investor will lead to SIP cancellation.“Earlier the SIP used to get cancelled after three continuous dishonours, which has been now revised to four. This is more favourable to the investor as it gives the investor one additional month,” said a spokesperson from PGIM India Mutual Fund.
 
The news published on the date January 03, 2023 01:05 PM IST with headline  PSU banks woo investors, mutual funds romp home richer
 
The news published on the date December 30, 2022 07:48 AM IST with headline  Does size of mutual fund schemes matter? is: 
 The size, or assets under management (AUM), of a mutual fund is often a matter of debate.Some investors feel that a bigger fund is better. On the other hand, some investors doubt whether a fund will be able to sustain its good performance after growing too big.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSo, does AUM impact a fund’s returns? Let’s look at the issue.Impact of assets on large-cap fundsFor funds that invest primarily in large-cap stocks, called large-cap funds (both active and passive), and most flexicap funds, the size of the fund isn’t a very big concern. Large-cap stocks are fairly liquid and have sufficient trading volumes, and that clears doubts about whether the size of a fund will allow it to sustain its performance.
 
The news published on the date December 30, 2022 10:06 AM IST with headline  SEBI punishes DSP AMC, trustees for undercutting scheme expenses to woo investors is: 
 In 2018, SEBI had issued a circular mandating that fund houses must charge all MF scheme-related expenses to the schemes only. In probably a first-of-its-kind case, capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) imposed penalties on DSP Investment Managers (the asset management company of DSP Mutual Fund) and its Trustee company (DSP Trustee Co) for absorbing expense ratios of one of its schemes.The case pertains to DSP Nifty 50 Exchange Trade Fund (ETF), where the expense ratio was 0.16 percent. However, since DSP Nifty 50 ETF (DN50) was launched in December 2021, the fund house charged just 0.07 percent to the scheme as its expense ratio. DSP Investment Managers absorbed the balance (0.09 percent) on its own books. In other words, it showed only 0.07 percent as the scheme’s official expense ratio.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSEBI objected to this saying it violates a circular that the regulator had issued in October 2018. The circular had made it mandatory for fund houses to charge all scheme-related expenses to the schemes only. The circular had said that expenses must not be paid by the asset management companies’ (AMC) books or those of its associates, sponsors, trustees, or any other firm.SEBI has imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh each to the fund house and the trustee company.What really happenedLaunched in December 2021, DN50 collected Rs 11.81 crore. By the end of that year, its corpus has inched up to Rs 11.89 crore and by March 2022, its corpus was Rs 22.59 crore.
 
The news published on the date December 30, 2022 07:42 PM IST with headline  Got Rs 10 lakh? Time to look at debt funds in ’23, says LIC MF’s Marzban Irani is: 
 Marzban Irani, Chief Investment Officer, Fixed Income, LIC Mutual Fund Inflation was the biggest newsmaker of 2022, and central banks around the world hiked interest rates. India was no exception. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) hiked the repo rate by 225 basis points (bps) from May 2022 to 6.25 percent.Predictably, the yield of the benchmark 10-year security went up -- from 6.45 percent at the beginning of the year to 7.31 percent, as on December 28, 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDebt funds felt the maximum pain as returns fell. But fund houses started launching target maturity funds to capitalise on the rising interest rates. With inflation coming under control and interest rates assumed to be near their peak, experts believe that, in 2023, how you choose your debt funds and debt investments will be crucial.Moneycontrol caught up with Marzban Irani, Chief Investment Officer, Fixed Income, LIC Mutual Fund, who has been in the Rs 40-lakh-crore Indian Mutual Fund (MF) industry for close to 22 years.Having worked at Tata MF, Mirae Asset India MF and DSP MF in the past, Irani has seen the highs and lows of the debt markets, including the great debt crisis of 2008 as well as the COVID-induced liquidity crisis. He feels the worst is over for debt funds, and investors must now get serious about debt allocation.
 
The news published on the date December 29, 2022 10:11 AM IST with headline  Bank of India MF, former CEO and others settle Sebi case on valuation is: 
 Representative image The Bank of India mutual fund (MF) has settled an investigation started by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.Sebi had on November 2022 accused the fund house, India’s 30th largest in its sphere, with assets of around Rs 3,369.95 crore, of violating debt security valuation norms and observed that it had unfairly transferred bad securities, which were also classified as high-risk schemes, into low and medium-risk schemes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe market regulator also observed that Bank of India MF’s former chief executive officer (CEO) Sandeep Dasgupta had withdrawn a sizeable amount of his investments from the fund house.In its settlement order put out on December 28, Sebi said that it had observed that Dasgupta “was in possession of all unpublished material information about the valuation of the defaulted securities and while possessing the said information, he withdrew almost his entire investment from the fund to his advantage”.Sebi said not just Dasgupta, his wife and daughter also redeemed their investments after allegedly knowing the dire straits that the fund house was in. In its settlement order, Sebi said that it appears that Dasgupta would have passed on the information to his wife and daughter, who too decided to withdraw their investments.
 
The news published on the date January 13, 2023 06:36 PM IST with headline  Gold hits all-time high: Should you still buy it in 2023? is: 
 Representative image Gold prices hit a record high on January 13. The price of gold hit a high of Rs 56245 at MCX on January 13. Although the Indian Rupee has steadied against the US dollar by and large over the last three months, a generally depreciating Rupee over the past 1-year period has also led to Indian gold prices go up.The big question: Should you still invest in gold?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLakshmi Iyer, CEO-Investment Advisory, Kotak Investment Advisors Ltd says that the pace of interest rate hikes by the US Federal Reserve is set to be moderated. "That has resulted in an acute weakness in the dollar index; which means that the commodities would do well. There is renewed confidence in commodities," says Iyer. She points out that many central banks have also been buying gold.A look at the returns of various asset classes in the last three months would make investors to think of increasing their allocation to precious metals, gold and silver, as the prices have been going up.While gold ETF is up 9.75 percent, silver ETF is up 22.55 percent on an average. Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) have emerged as popular instruments to invest in precious metals over a period of time. Though precious metals did well in the recent past, investors should not solely rely on these numbers to make their decisions.
 
The news published on the date December 27, 2022 06:30 PM IST with headline  Just 13% large-cap funds beat benchmarks. A look at stocks the winners love to hold
 
The news published on the date December 28, 2022 06:15 PM IST with headline  Sectoral MFs in 2022: IT stays depressing, but banking is on a boom is: 
 The underdog won and the favourite disappointed.On December 26, Moneycontrol carried an in-depth analysis of how sector and thematic funds did in 2022. Two sectors, banking and Information Technology (IT), stood out. But contrary to expectations, technology funds delivered a disappointing performance in 2022. Whereas banking sector funds topped the charts, after a stressful period during the first two waves of Covid.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | The best and worst of mutual funds of 2022Broadly, there are four sectoral funds in the Rs 40 trillion Indian mutual funds (MF) industry. They are banking, IT, infrastructure, and pharma. While infra and pharma funds performed largely in line with the BSE Sensex (up 3.5 percent YTD), banking funds have risen 17 percent this year. However, IT funds have slumped around 24 percent since the start of the year.To be sure, fund houses have variations of banking sector funds. Some focus on the private sector, some on public-sector banks, while some invest in both.
 
The news published on the date December 27, 2022 08:43 AM IST with headline  Looking back at 2022: The best and the worst sectoral mutual funds
 
The news published on the date December 26, 2022 08:29 AM IST with headline  Did your large-cap equity fund get left behind in 2022? is: 
 The market rally in 2022 has been far from broad based. The category average returns for equity mutual funds in 2022 are misleading. Sample this: the large-cap equity fund category average for year-to-date (YTD) returns is at around 5.40%. However, the highest return by a fund is 13.9 percent and the lowest return is -13.7%. When the highs and lows are at such extremes, the average category return clearly doesn’t mean much.Interestingly, the average category return is very close to the benchmark index Nifty 50’s YTD return of around 5.5%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe outcomes in the mid- and small-cap equity fund categories are similarly extreme.There are two matters to unpack here. First, what caused such extreme outcomes, especially in the large-cap equity space, where fund managers have a total stock selection universe of just 100 stocks, with little room for differentiation?Secondly, if you are stuck holding a fund that has underperformed its peer set by a large margin, what should you do?
 
The news published on the date December 26, 2022 06:24 AM IST with headline  Should you go passive in the mid- and small-cap fund space just like in large-caps? is: 
 (representative image) Passive investing has gained traction in India, particularly in the past two years, evident from the number of index schemes rolled out by fund houses in the equity space.India has 85 index funds, of which more than half (nearly 57 percent) have been launched only in the past two years since January 2021.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNearly 38 percent of the new index funds were in the large-cap category. Almost every fund house already has one index fund in the large-cap category; many passive funds are now being launched in the mid- and small-cap space.Should investors invest in these too and build a complete portfolio of passive funds? The choice between active and passively managed funds primarily boils down to one thing -- whether actively managed funds can beat their benchmarks and give additional risk-adjusted returns to investors. Let us reflect on some data.After the recategorization since 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the top 100 stocks in terms of market capitalisation are classified as large-cap stocks, 101-250 as midcaps and from 251 onward as small caps.
 
The news published on the date December 23, 2022 10:26 AM IST with headline  Flipkart fully hives off PhonePe ahead of fintech major's multi-million dollar fundraise is: 
 Representative image Walmart-backed Flipkart has completed full ownership separation of PhonePe as the payments and financial services unicorn is looking to raise its largest-ever funding round, which will make it the most-valued fintech startup in India."Setting up these businesses as separate entities will also provide value and create new opportunities for investors to participate in the Indian tech ecosystem – helping unlock and maximize enterprise value for shareholders of the two companies," the two companies said in a joint statement on December 23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"As part of this transaction, existing Flipkart Singapore and PhonePe Singapore shareholders, led by Walmart, have purchased shares directly in PhonePe India. This also completes the move to make PhonePe a fully India-domiciled company, a process that started earlier this year," the statement said.In October, PhonePe moved its registered entity from Singapore to India ahead of its plans to launch an IPO in the country. But a source said moving the domicile to India was also because PhonePe’s many businesses come under the purview of the regulators here.In an interview for CNN News18’s Bits to Billions in June, PhonePe co-founder and CEO Sameer Nigam had revealed that the company is in the process of moving its registered entity from Singapore to India. He had said that the board had already signed off on the plan and the completion of the process was only a matter of time.
 
The news published on the date January 04, 2023 11:22 AM IST with headline  Overseas mutual funds are again open for investments; what should be your strategy? is: 
 As of now there are 70 schemes in India which are dedicated for investing in various overseas geographies and instruments. After nearly a year of regulatory limitations, most Indian equity funds investing in overseas markets are again accepting funds from domestic investors.Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company (AMC) recently announced that from January 1, it will accept fresh subscriptions in five of its international funds via lump-sum payments and options such as systematic investment plans (SIPs) and systematic transfer plans (STPs), etc, without any restrictions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe five funds are S&P 500 Index Fund, Nasdaq 100 ETF, Nasdaq 100 Fund of Fund, MSCI EAFE Top 100 Select Index Fund and Nasdaq Q 50 ETF.Some of these funds were earlier accepting investments too, but with certain restrictions.Franklin India Mutual Fund last month announced that fresh registrations under SIP and STP in Asian Equity Fund, Feeder Franklin US Opportunities Fund and Feeder Templeton European Opportunities Fund were being reactivated.
 
The news published on the date December 24, 2022 09:35 AM IST with headline  These equity diversified schemes are chart toppers in 2022
 
The news published on the date December 22, 2022 04:37 PM IST with headline  Baroda BNP Paribas Multi Asset Fund collects over Rs 1,200 crore via NFO is: 
 Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund started operations on March 14 as Baroda Asset Management Company and BNP Paribas Asset Management Company’s merger finally came through after more than two years. Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund on December 22 said it has mobilised over Rs 1,234.72 crore assets under management (AUM) during the new fund offer (NFO) period of its multi-asset fund.The NFO for Baroda BNP Paribas Multi Asset Fund was open from November 28 to December 12, 2022. The fund will reopen for subscriptions on December 26.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBaroda BNP Paribas Multi Asset Fund is an open-ended scheme investing in equity, debt and gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs).This is the second new fund offering by Baroda BNP Paribas Asset Management India Pvt Ltd in the last nine months since the formation of the merged entity in March 2022.Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund started operations on March 14 as Baroda Asset Management Company and BNP Paribas Asset Management Company’s merger finally came through after more than two years.
 
The news published on the date December 22, 2022 01:23 PM IST with headline  Dynamic bond funds at crossroads over central bank's interest rate decision is: 
 Representative image Debt fund investors are in a dilemma. Yields on short- and long-duration funds are attractive, and so are yields of liquid funds. If rates were to go down, long-duration funds can do better, but it’s not clear when this will happen.These factors make it difficult for debt fund investors to choose a debt segment they should bet on and when they should move from one to another. Should fund managers decide these matters? It is possible with dynamic bond funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat is on offer?Dynamic bond funds are debt schemes of mutual funds that allow fund managers to invest in bonds, depending on their view on interest rates. The fund manager decides the portfolio duration.If the fund manager anticipates that interest rates will rise, he can choose to remain invested in a relatively shorter maturity paper. If interest rates are expected to decline, the choice may be longer-maturity paper.
 
The news published on the date December 22, 2022 12:14 PM IST with headline  These small-cap favourites of mutual funds fetch up to 202% returns this year
 
The news published on the date December 20, 2022 07:24 PM IST with headline  Coming soon: Well regulated execution-only platforms for investing in direct mutual fund schemes is: 
 Representative image The Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in a bid to protect the investors’ interest dealing in units of direct plans of mutual fund schemes, announced the introduction of the regulatory framework for the execution-only platform (EOP) for direct mutual fund schemes. The announcement comes after the meeting of the board of directors of SEBI today. In August 2022, the regulator had sought feedback on the regulatory framework for transaction-only platforms, which allow transactions in mutual funds without the help of mutual fund distributors.The regulator made it clear that the detailed framework and the modalities of the implementation of the EOP regulations, nature of services that may be offered by the EOPs, cyber security requirements, pricing of services, and grievances redressal mechanisms will be announced later through circulars.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe EOP for direct plans of mutual funds has three key objectives. First is to offer convenience to the investors in making investments through EOPs, and second is to put in place an appropriate investors protection mechanism. The third objective is to ensure ease of doing business with the EOPs by mandating only such appropriate regulatory compliances that are required for execution services. This should reduce the regulatory and compliance burden on such platforms.“Under the approved framework, EOPs may be granted registrations under either of the two categories – Category 1 EOP as an agent of AMCs, registered with AMFI or category 2 EOP, as an agent of investor, registered as a stockbroker,” the press release said.As of now many entities offering direct plans on their investment platforms are registered as stock brokers. The industry observers say that many of them would like to continue as Category 2 EOPs, as agent investors and registered as a stock broker. Since these entities are used to collect fees from the clients on an ongoing basis and there are agreements in place to that effect, they may find it easy to continue as it is.
 
The news published on the date December 20, 2022 02:37 PM IST with headline  Motilal Oswal MF to reopen global funds for SIPs, lump sum investments without restrictions is: 
 Representative image. Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company has announced that it will withdraw the temporary suspension of subscriptions in five of its international funds with effect from January 1, 2023.The five funds are S&P 500 Index Fund, Nasdaq 100 ETF, Nasdaq 100 Fund of Fund, MSCI EAFE Top 100 Select Index Fund and Nasdaq Q 50 ETF.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe asset management company (AMC) will now be accepting fresh subscriptions in these schemes via lump sum and systematic investment options such as systematic investment plan (SIPs) and systematic transfer plans (STPs), without any restrictions.“Your previously paused systematic investment options, if any, will also be resumed and processed as per their registration; hence we request you to keep your respective accounts funded appropriately,” the fund house said in a letter to investors.Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund also highlighted that in the event of complete exhaustion of the available headroom that is being utilised at present to resume overseas investments, all the subscriptions might be paused again.
 
The news published on the date December 20, 2022 06:57 PM IST with headline  What attracted mutual funds to KFin Technologies’ IPO anchor round? is: 
 KFin Technologies IPO KFin Technologies, which is in the process of going public, recently raised Rs 675 crore from 44 investors, including Goldman Sachs Funds, Carmignac Portfolio, Aberdeen Standard SICAV, Citigroup Global Markets Mauritius, Morgan Stanley and Copthall Mauritius Investment.The company, a Registrar and Transfer (R&T) agent, launched its Initial Public Offering (IPO), which comprises only an Offer for Sale (OFS) by its promoter, on December 19. Data published by the stock exchanges showed that the Rs 1,500 crore issue was subscribed 0.55 times on day one.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKFin Technologies provides investor solutions, including transaction origination and processing for mutual funds (MFs). It is the largest investor solutions provider to Indian MFs, based on the number of asset management companies (AMCs) to which it provided services (24 out of 41 as of September, representing 59 percent of the market).Computer Age Management Systems (CAMS) is the closest rival to KFin in the Rs 40 trillion Indian MF industry.As per the anchor intimation letter by KFin Technologies, out of the total allocation of 18.4 million equity shares to the anchor investors, 6.9 million, or 37.78 percent of the total, were allocated to eight domestic MFs through a total of 17 schemes.
 
The news published on the date December 21, 2022 12:43 PM IST with headline  MC Explains | How mutual funds invest in RTA shares
 
The news published on the date December 23, 2022 07:01 AM IST with headline  MC30 Scheme Review | A debt fund is designed to deliver better returns across rate cycles
 
The news published on the date December 16, 2022 04:30 PM IST with headline  Usha Thorat On Incentivising Mutual Funds For Retail Investors | Passive funds & ETFs | Exclusive
 
The news published on the date December 19, 2022 11:04 AM IST with headline  Index funds that bet on alpha, with low volatility… And stocks they love to hold
 
The news published on the date December 14, 2022 09:55 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol MF Summit | Training of investment begins right from home, says chef and businessman Vikas Khanna is: 
 Michelin star chef, businessman, Vikas Khanna at the Moneycontrol Mutual Fund Summit "My first investment I ever made was in small banquets in 1990," shared Vikas Khanna, the Michelin star Indian chef, restaurateur, author, filmmaker and a humanitarian."The banquet was a total failure and I am proud of it," chuckled Khanna as he spoke further on the topic 'Investing in a Billion Aspirations' at Moneycontrol's first Mutual Fund Summit in Mumbai on December 14.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdALSO READ: Moneycontrol Mutual Fund Summit | Investor behaviour will be key to alpha generation: Fund managersElaborating on risk-taking from a very young age, Khanna said, "Training of investment begins right from home. It begins right from when you are taught that you got to take this risk.""For anyone who is aspiring investor, talent, artist, you need to first invest in yourself," he added, saying that it is a part of building one's value.
 
The news published on the date December 15, 2022 09:23 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Mutual Fund Summit | ETFs, index funds have shortcomings like gaps in pricing and NAV: Usha Thorat is: 
 Usha Thorat speaks at the summit. Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and index funds are ideal for retail investors, but these products also have shortcomings such as the gap in pricing and the net asset value, said Usha Thorat, chairperson of the SEBI mutual funds advisory committee and former RBI deputy governor on December 14.In her keynote address at the Moneycontrol Mutual Fund Summit, Thorat highlighted that the post-COVID years have seen a phenomenal growth of investors in mutual funds as also in the assets under management (AUM) to Rs 40 trillion currently.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data on household savings shows that bank deposits grew at 9.54 percent in the last two years, insurance by 6.2 percent, but household investments in mutual funds actually grew at a CAGR of 32.3 percent, and the household investments constitute about half of that at Rs 21 trillion,” said Thorat.The chairperson of the SEBI advisory committee also emphasized the responsibility of mutual fund houses while voting as these entities were becoming bigger and bigger shareholders in corporate equities.In terms of suggestions for regulations, Thorat said that the system should be looking at a roadmap for the gradual exit of institutional investors from the mutual fund industry.
 
The news published on the date December 14, 2022 09:17 PM IST with headline  Exclusive: Moneycontrol's Mutual Fund Summit 2022 concludes
 
The news published on the date December 13, 2022 05:54 PM IST with headline  Long-duration funds from Axis and SBI MF: Should you invest? is: 
 Representative image Everyone in the bond market is showing some interest in long-term bonds, while a few may be more interested than the rest. Mutual fund houses such as Axis Mutual Fund and SBI Mutual Fund have announced the launch of long-duration funds. Should you invest?What is on offer?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLong-duration funds construct bond portfolios with a duration in excess of seven years. This is achieved by investing in very long-term bonds. The Axis Long Duration (ALD) Fund will be managed by Devang Shah, Kaustubh Sule, and Hardik Shah, and the SBI Long Duration (SLD) Fund by Rajeev Radhakrishnan. ALD will track Nifty Long Duration Debt Index A-III, and SLD is benchmarked against CRISIL Long Duration Fund AIII Index.What works?These schemes generally invest in good quality bonds, and both SBI and Axis are no different. Both schemes will be investing in long-term government securities (G-Secs). These schemes will buy and hold on to the bonds they invest in. In mutual fund (MF) parlance, this is known as roll-down strategy. The idea is to keep earning interest without taking much credit risk. For investors looking at long-term investments in bonds, this can be an attractive investment option. The fund house collects the coupon and keep investing it in bonds of similar maturities.
 
The news published on the date December 13, 2022 01:16 PM IST with headline  Value funds make a comeback: These mid-cap and small-cap stocks are their favourites
 
The news published on the date December 16, 2022 02:19 PM IST with headline  Combining tax benefits with higher returns: Tax-saving funds that top the charts
 
The news published on the date December 07, 2022 03:01 PM IST with headline  How should debt fund investors play the RBI rate hike? is: 
 The Reserve Bank of India's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has continued with its rate hiking spree as it increased the policy repo rate by 35 basis points to 6.25 percent. The increase, in line with analyst views, has also raised expectations of the interest rate hiking cycle coming to an end soon. Against this backdrop, the investment strategies for debt investors need to be carefully reviewed. Here is what experts have to say.Have the rates peaked?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf you have been investing in any fixed-income product that offers a market-determined rate of return, then this is the most worrying part of the investment puzzle. In most of the key economies, including the US, interest rates have been hiked by central bankers. Since May 2022, the RBI too has increased policy rates by 190 basis points to contain inflation. Hence, today's 35 basis-point rate hike is no surprise and was moreover discounted by the market participants. Though some investors have started to believe that we are nearing the end of the rate hike curve, do not make the mistake to think that rates will soon start coming down.The quantum and pace of further rate hikes will be dependent on how the macroeconomic environment will shape up. “Headline inflation is expected to remain above or close to the upper threshold in Q3 and Q4:2022-23. It is likely to moderate in H1:2023-24 but will still remain well above the target. Meanwhile, economic activity has held up well and is expected to be resilient, supported by domestic demand. Net exports would remain subdued due to the drag from evolving external demand conditions. Further, the impact of monetary policy measures undertaken needs to be watched,” states the monetary policy statement issued today.Simply put, investors have to keep a track of macroeconomic factors, both domestic as well as global, to get an idea of where the interest rates are headed. The Union Budget 2023 will also be a key event that will offer much-needed information pertaining to fiscal deficit and government borrowings.
 
The news published on the date December 07, 2022 02:02 PM IST with headline  RBI hikes interest rate as expected, and keeps the door open for further hikes is: 
 Even as the Reserve Bank of India governor appeared on television screens on Wednesday morning, most people in the market were expecting an interest rate hike of 35 basis points (bps), i.e., 0.35 percent point. And this is just what happened. The interest rate increase we are talking about is on the repo rate, the rate at which the RBI lends funds to banks, if required, one day at a time. It went up from 5.9 per cent to 6.25 per cent. This rate is the pivot for interest rates in the entire economy. A hike in the repo rate today increases banks’ lending and deposit rates tomorrow. People’s antennae were up for a gauge on future rate hikes—whether there is any hint or softening of the stance—to gauge how the RBI would act at its next meeting on February 8, 2023. And the RBI kept its options open. If required, it will go in for another rate hike of, say, 25 bps.Having said that, things can change over the next two months. There would be two more data points on inflation, that of November, to be declared in a few days from now and that of December, to be announced in January 2023. If inflation is on the higher side of expectations, that may be a case for another rate hike. There is a meeting of the Federal Reserve scheduled on December 14, where the US central bank is expected to hike the interest rate by 50 bps. This is known to markets and the RBI. What will be of relevance is the Fed’s outlook on future interest rate action. Global developments on geopolitical tensions, crude oil price (which has a big bearing on our inflation) and other prices would pan out over next two months. Moreover, the Union budget will be announced on February 1, 2023, i.e., just prior to the next RBI meeting on February 8. The extent of fiscal deficit announced in the budget and whether it is overall pro- or anti-inflationary would influence the RBI’s deliberations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOther aspects of the reviewIn Wednesday’s policy review, the other variables that financial market participants would look at are inflation and GDP growth. The RBI’s projection on Consumer Price Index or CPI inflation remains similar to that of the previous policy review, which is 6.7 percent in 2022-23 and expected to ease to 5 percent in the first quarter of 2023-24. There is a minor upward tweak in inflation projections, in decimal points only. GDP growth projection for the current year, 2022-23, was revised downward from 7 percent earlier to 6.8 percent. A downward revision in growth projections implies the need for support from the RBI in terms of not-so-high interest rates. However, inflation is the bigger consideration for the central bank when it comes to interest rate decisions.Market reaction
 
The news published on the date December 05, 2022 07:32 AM IST with headline  Higher tax deductions, more power to NPS: MF distributors’ wish list for Budget 2023 is: 
 Representative image Budget 2023 is just under two months away. While it’s a given that small investors always look for more tax deductions and respite on income tax rates, some fear the Union budget may increase the tax burden to augment revenue. However, Deepak Chhabria, founder and managing director of Axiom Financial Services, says, “Investors prefer predictability and stability in tax laws. So the government should not make big changes in taxation which would unnerve investors. Instead, a rationalisation of tax rules with inbuilt incentives should attract investments.”Increased tax sheltersStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflation has been ruling high for almost a year and there are expectations that it will take some time before it cools, and the hope is that the government takes note of this and offers some respite to investors.Deduction under Section 80C has been capped at Rs 1.5 lakh and there are many instruments including contributions to the Employees’ Provident Fund, public provident fund, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, equity-linked saving schemes (ELSS), National Saving Certificates, tax-saving bank fixed deposits, life insurance premiums along with home loan principal repayments that are eligible for it. The general feeling is that it is high time that the finance minister raises the quantum of deduction.“The dated threshold to avail deductions under Section 80C must be revised. There is a sense of urgency attached to this revision considering growing incomes, ability to financialise savings and the economic need to route savings to investments,” says Nirav Karkera, head, research, Fisdom, a financial advisory firm.
 
The news published on the date December 05, 2022 07:28 AM IST with headline  Why target maturity funds should be in your portfolio as interest rate increases slow is: 
 Getting the best deal for our purchases, the lowest interest rate on our loans and the highest return on our investments gives an unmatched sense of accomplishment. However, it is not always possible to wait for the most opportune time or foresee one.The same goes for our investments. We all like to enter the market at the perfect time and exit at the perfect time. That is not always possible and there is enough evidence to discredit the approach of timing the market. Having said that, broad trends can still be used as a guide for tactical investment decisions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSample this. Geo-political issues, accelerating inflation and the resultant interest rate hikes by global central bankers have kept the capital markets volatile through most part of this year.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has increased its benchmark interest rate by 190 basis points since the month of May this year, taking the policy rate from 4% to 5.9%. One basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.The rise in policy rates and the resultant increase in market yields has made it an opportune time to invest in the fixed income markets to benefit from the higher yields and any potential capital gains that arise as the cycles reverses.
 
The news published on the date December 03, 2022 09:17 PM IST with headline  SBI MF to distribute Rs 29.91 crore among FISTIP unitholders; payments to commence from Dec 7 is: 
 Representative image SBI Funds Management (SBI MF) will be distributing Rs 29.91 crore among the eligible unitholders of Franklin India Short Term Income Plan (FISTIP), a scheme under winding up, as per a statement issued on December 3."Further to the nine tranches of distribution totalling Rs 5,423.34 crore in FISTIP, we are pleased to inform you that SBI MF would be distributing the next tranche of Rs 29.91 crores to unitholders," it said.Story continues below AdvertisementThe amount will be paid by "extinguishing proportionate units at the NAV (net asset value) dated December 2, 2022". The payments will commence from December 7 onwards.The amount payable will be 5.84 percent of the unitholders' portfolio value, prior to the extinguishment of units, as of December 2, it added, further stating that the same proportion of their units held will also be extinguished as per their "respective plan level NAV as on December 2".Post this payout, FISTIP would have paid 98.20 percent of its assets under management (AUM) as on April 23, 2020, the statement noted.Investors may note that in addition to the payments till date, any recoveries or receipts from securities which are currently valued at zero or have matured but defaulted on their repayment obligation, "shall be paid out to investors as and when such amounts are recovered/received", it further said
 
The news published on the date December 02, 2022 04:30 PM IST with headline  IIFL launches India’s first passive tax-saving fund after SEBI’s nod is: 
 IIFL Mutual Fund has launched the new fund offering of IIFL ELSS Nifty 50 Tax Saver Index Fund (IN50).It is the first passively managed tax-saving scheme (also known as Equity-Linked Savings Scheme, or ELSS) to be launched after the capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), allowed fund houses to launch such passive funds on May 23, 2022. Should you invest in the scheme?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat is on offer?IN50 is an equity fund. It will invest in all stocks in- and in the same proportion as they lie in- the Nifty50 index. It will aim to mimic Nifty 50 index’s returns. This also means IN50’s fund manager will not take cash calls; it won’t substantially hold cash, like some other tax saver schemes do.Being a tax saver fund, all investments in this scheme up to Rs 1.5 lakh, along with other eligible contributions, will fetch you deduction under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act. Like all contributions to ELSS, the units of this scheme too will be locked in for three years from the date of allotment.
 
The news published on the date December 02, 2022 10:25 AM IST with headline  Bharat Bond ETF – April 2033 launches today: Should you buy? is: 
 Edelweiss Mutual Fund is launching the fourth tranche of the Bharat Bond Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF) today. This fund is part of a growing breed of Target Maturity Funds (TMF) that the Rs 39 lakh crore Indian mutual funds (MF) industry has been launching for the past year or so. Bharat Bond ETF is a TMF with a twist.What does it offer?Bharat Bond ETF is a passively managed debt fund, which will invest your money in fixed-income earning securities. It consists of AAA-rated debt securities of government-owned companies looking to raise money from the public. It comes with a fixed tenure, after which the scheme matures and you - the investor- get your money back.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe scheme is different from a typical open-ended debt fund. Bharat Bond was conceived by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, which looks into the government’s equity stakes in companies and is in charge of divestment. The scheme has been devised to help government-owned companies borrow money for their requirements, preferably sizeably, instead of issuing several instruments over a period of time and also to bring down the cost of borrowing.In 2019, Edelweiss MF won the bid to launch the Bharat Bond scheme series and has launched three tranches already so far.For those who do not have a demat account, Bharat Bond also offers a fund-of-funds (FOF) option. This works just like any other mutual fund scheme, which you can buy from your distributor or directly from the fund house. The FOF will invest the entire corpus in an ETF. In simple words, you do not need to go to the stock exchange to buy or sell FOF units.
 
The news published on the date November 30, 2022 09:16 PM IST with headline  IDFC AMC's acquisition by Bandhan-led consortium gets SEBI nod is: 
 The proposed acquisition received RBI's nod in Oct 2022 (Representative image) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has given it "no objection" to the acquisition of IDFC AMC by a consortium led by Bandhan Financial Holdings Ltd (BFHL), stating a release issued by the asset management company on November 30.SEBI's nod comes a month after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) gave its assent to the proposed acquisition. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) had given its approval in August.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs per the terms of the acquisition, BFHL will own approximately 60 percent stake in IDFC AMC, whereas, the other two members of the consortium - GIC and ChrysCapital (CC) will own 20 percent each.On completion of the transition, IDFC AMC is proposed to be renamed as Bandhan Asset Management Company, and IDFC Mutual Fund (IDFC MF) is proposed to be renamed as Bandhan Mutual Fund, with BFHL becoming the sponsor of the mutual fund, the release said.Consequently, each scheme of IDFC MF will be renamed to replace the word ‘IDFC’ with the word ‘Bandhan’, it added.
 
The news published on the date November 29, 2022 04:58 PM IST with headline  Sebi introduces credit rating wise investment limit for active debt funds is: 
 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on November 29 introduced credit rating-based single issuer limit for investment for most actively managed debt mutual fund schemes.The market regulator in a circular said for schemes other than credit risk funds, a mutual fund scheme will not invest more than 10 percent of its NAV (net asset value) in debt and money market securities rated AAA by a single issuer. Similarly, the limit is 8 percent for those rated AA and 6 percent for those rated A and below.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The above investment limits may be extended by up to 2 percent of the NAV of the scheme with prior approval of the Board of Trustees and Board of Directors of the AMC (asset management companies), subject to compliance with the overall 12 percent limit specified in clause 1 of Seventh Schedule of MF Regulation,” Sebi said.Under Sebi MF Regulations, a mutual fund scheme is not allowed to invest more than 10 percent of its NAV in debt instruments, issued by a single issuer. This new rule further defines the investment limits according to credit profile, hence minimising risks.The new rule is effective immediately for those debt funds launched from today onwards. Existing schemes shall be grandfathered from these guidelines till the maturity of the underlying debt and money market securities.
 
The news published on the date November 24, 2022 10:49 AM IST with headline  Budget 2023: Wishlist of markets has a tax-heavy logic is: 
 The government should treat a mutual fund scheme, an insurance product or even a bank deposit in a similar way for taxation if these products serve the same purpose.This was the crux of the budget wish list that financial market representatives gave to the government during a meeting with the finance minister on November 22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Budget 2023 | Need income tax cuts to revive demand, CII tells finance ministryMarket participants said there was a need to harmonise tax rules on different financial products. Some of the proposals included tax exemption for mutual fund schemes that closely resemble insurance unit-linked insurance plans (ULIPs) and pension products, according to people aware of the discussions.“People do not invest for mere returns but specifically for post-tax returns. So in that sense, products that serve the same purpose, say retirement or annuity, should be treated the same when considered for taxation,” said a market participant aware of the discussions.
 
The news published on the date November 22, 2022 06:57 PM IST with headline  Motilal Oswal AMC to accept subscriptions in three international funds is: 
 Representative image Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund has announced re-opening of its index funds investing in overseas stocks for investors. The fund house will be accepting up to Rs 2 lakh per calendar month, per permanent account number (PAN) from December 1, 2022 in three schemes. This limit of Rs 2 lakh is also per scheme.The fund house has communicated that it will be accepting investments as lumpsum or switch-in into Motilal Oswal S&P 500 Index Fund, Motilal Oswal MSCI EAFE Top 100 Select Index Fund and Motilal Oswal Nasdaq 100 Fund of Fund. The fund house will not be accepting money in these schemes through systematic investment plans and systematic transfer plans.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | Check out Moneycontrol’s curated list of 30 investment-worthy mutual fund schemesThough the fund house won’t accept any SIP in the aforesaid schemes, the investors are allowed to invest in tranches in them. Each of these investments will be treated as a separate subscription and units will be allotted, as far as the investor does not cross Rs 2 lakh-mark in a given calendar month.Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) had notified in June 2022, that mutual fund schemes may resume subscriptions and make investments in overseas funds or securities up to the headroom available without breaching the overseas investment limits as on February 01, 2022.
 
The news published on the date November 22, 2022 08:09 AM IST with headline  US Fed rate action will not impact India: Sonal Desai of Franklin Templeton is: 
 Sonal Desai, Chief Investment Officer, Franklin Templeton Fixed Income Indian investors are typically lured towards equity rather than debt or fixed-income securities. In developed countries such as the US, fixed income is big business. Almost 40 percent of Franklin Templeton’s assets under management worldwide are in fixed income securities, 32-33 percent in equities, about 18 percent in alternative assets, and 10 percent in multi-asset funds.Sonal Desai is chief investment officer at Franklin Templeton Fixed Income. The Indian-born Desai oversees the firm’s fixed income strategies. Desai joined as director of research for Templeton Global Macro in 2009 and she became the fund house’s global head of fixed income in 2018.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdToday, she oversees a global fixed income team of more than 150 portfolio managers, analysts and traders managing over $132 billion in fixed income assets as of September 30.In a conversation with Moneycontrol’s Kayezad E. Adajania, she said India is relatively un-correlated from the US markets and Fed rate hikes and is more impacted by oil prices. Edited excerpts:Franklin Templeton is popular in the US for its high-yield strategies. In India, these funds are popularly known as credit risk funds and in the past roughly four years, these funds went through turmoil. Are such funds well-understood in the US?
 
The news published on the date November 14, 2022 09:29 AM IST with headline  Three investment options to secure your child’s future is: 
 For parents, saving for their children’s future is among their top priorities. And rightly so. A good course from a good college can set a child’s career on the right track.While there are several investment options available to secure your children’s future, these are the top three:· Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY): for daughters only.· Equity mutual funds (MF): for both sons and daughters.· Public Provident Fund (PPF): for both sons and daughters.SSY and PPFSince both are debt instruments, we will discuss them together (though Sukanya Samriddhi is only available for daughters).When it comes to interest rates, SSY is better at 7.6 percent vs. PPF at 7.1 percent. But that shouldn’t be the only reason to pick SSY over PPF.Also read | Last minute tax-planning tipsAn SSY account can be opened for a girl child up to the age 10. It has a 21-year tenure (or it will close post her wedding). Deposits can be made till the 15th year. The SSY corpus will still generate returns from the 16th to the 21st year. One cannot make any additional contributions from the 16th to the 21st year.The entire SSY corpus is locked-in till the girl child attains the age of 18. Thereafter, only up to 50 percent of the amount can be withdrawn for educational needs. Hence, liquidity may be an issue. What if your daughter’s higher education requires more money than the available 50 percent of the SSY corpus? You have more lying there but it’s not available at your time of need.Also read | Should you invest in children-specific mutual fund schemes?Nonetheless, there is some merit in SSY, and it gives better tax-free returns. But if liquidity after the 15th year is a concern, then having a PPF account is also advisable, as one can withdraw funds from one’s PPF account after 15 years. PPF provides greater flexibility and can be used as an investment tool even after the daughter’s marriage or the closure of her SSY account.Equity MFsBut neither PPF nor SSY are the best options if your daughter’s higher education goals are several years away. Why?Also read | High on returns, low on volatility: These mutual funds offer a winning comboThat’s because both PPF and Sukanya are long-tenure debt products. Given the high cost of education and the inflation these days, it’s possible that the savings in SSY and PPF alone will be unable to match the pace of inflation. The result will be inadequate savings. And that is something that you would never want as a parent.Also read | Zerodha's Nithin Kamath, who started trading at 17, has this to advice to young kidsSound investment logic demands that when investing for long-term goals, it’s better to invest more in equity as that is the only viable option to generate inflation-beating returns in the long term. Doing so through a disciplined SIP (systematic investment plan) in equity funds is your best bet.How to split your money between MFs, SSY and PPF?Here are a few thumb rules to follow:· If you are ultra-conservative and the goals are 15-plus years away, then keep it simple and give your 100 percent to SSY and PPF.· If your children are older, the long lock-in periods of SSY and PPF may not align with your goal requirements. In that case, you can pick a few debt MFs.· If you have a moderate risk appetite, then allocate 50 percent to equity MFs, and split the remaining 50 percent between SSY and / or PPF.· For moderately aggressive to aggressive investors, it can be 80-100 percent in equity funds, and the remaining (if any) in SSY / PPF.If you are looking for some real numbers to suggest how much to invest, below are a few:· If you need to accumulate Rs 75 lakh in 15 years, then invest Rs 18,000-19,000 per month in an 80:20 equity MF:debt split.· If you need to accumulate Rs 50 lakh in 10 years, then invest Rs 24,000-25,000 per month in a 65:35 equity MF:debt allocation.· If you need to accumulate Rs 35 lakh in 6 years, then invest Rs 36,000-37,000 per month in 40:60 MF:debt allocation.Also read | Thus, the earlier you start, the better it is. For instance, if your target is to reach Rs 50 lakh in 10 years then you need to invest Rs 24,000-25,000 monthly at a roughly 65:35 MF:debt split. But if you start earlier and have 15 years to reach the same goal, then you only need to invest Rs 12,000-13,000 per month.Insurance is also importantBut just investing adequately every month is not enough, if god forbid something were to happen to you. Make sure you buy a large term life insurance cover that provides enough money not only for your children’s higher education and marriage, but for regular household expenses as well (if you are the sole-earner), children’s school expenses and other goals like a house purchase, etc
 
The news published on the date November 14, 2022 08:01 AM IST with headline  35 smart-beta funds: How to choose the one that works for you? is: 
 Yesterday, Edelweiss Mutual Fund, India’s 13th largest fund house with assets of just under Rs 90,000 crore, launched the Edelweiss Nifty Midcap 150 Momentum 50 Index Fund (ENM50). This was one among three passive equity schemes of the fund house. ENM50 is also the 21st smart-beta fund to be launched by the Rs 40 trillion Indian mutual fund (MF) industry this year. The fund will invest in a basket of 50 stocks, drawn from the Nifty Midcap 150 index.Overall, the Indian MF industry now has 35 smart-beta schemes with assets under management (AUM) of at least Rs 2,700 crore as on October 2022-end. The concept is relatively new in the Indian equity investment space, but garnering popular interest very fast. 21 of 35 smart-beta funds were launched in the last one year itself; the collective AUM of these 21 funds is around Rs 787 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAn ETF or exchange traded fund is a way of investing in a diversified portfolio of stocks that mirrors an underlying market capitalisation-based index like the Nifty 50 or Nifty 100. What you get are quality stocks in a diversified portfolio at a low cost because there is no active fund manager involved.A smart-beta ETF goes a step further and filters stocks from an index to deliver attributes that suit you best. It’s often referred to as an active strategy within a passive structure. This can also be done through an index fund wrapper, where the fund invests in relevant ETFs instead of specific stocks.Last year around this time, when there were about 13 such schemes already in existence, Moneycontrol had advised a wait-and-watch approach before investing in what was clearly becoming a fad. Has anything changed since? Let’s see.
 
The news published on the date November 04, 2022 09:28 AM IST with headline  Prudent Corporate Advisory: Robust Q2 earnings, best stock to ride growth in mutual fund industry is: 
 Representative image Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook Highlights Strong earnings in FY22 Rise in AUM led by organic as well as inorganic growth Product mix improves in favour of equity assets Superior business model Valuation premium Prudent Corporate Advisory Services (CMP: Rs 797; Mcap: Rs 3,300 crore), the newly listed mutual fund distributor, reported a strong set of earnings for the second quarter of FY23 (Q2 FY23). Net profit increased 41 percent year on year (YoY) in Q2 FY23 on the back of a solid growth in assets under management (AUM) and..
 
The news published on the date November 03, 2022 09:26 AM IST with headline  Money myths that can burn a hole in your pocket, and how to spot them is: 
 The lack of adequate financial literacy creates fertile ground for the propagation and acceptance of financial myths. While the wide prevalence of these myths or misconceptions stop many consumers from making optimal financial decisions, falling for some of these can have long-term adverse consequences on their financial health.Here are some of the top money myths that investors should avoid for their financial well-being.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMutual funds with lower NAVs are cheaperThis has been around ever since the Indian mutual funds industry started to expand sometime in the 1990s. Many retail investors wrongly consider mutual funds (MFs) with lower net asset values (NAVs) to be cheaper. This misconception is often used by many to promote new fund offers (NFOs) as their units are issued at a face value of Rs 10.However, multiple factors determine the NAV of any MF. For example, as the NAV of a fund is determined on the basis of the market value of its constituent investments, a well-managed fund’s NAV can grow faster than that of other funds, leading it to register higher NAV over the period.
 
The news published on the date October 17, 2022 03:39 PM IST with headline  Investing Abroad — The Essential Guide is: 
 Investing abroad has picked up in the last few years. For years, Indian investors have been obsessed over how much money foreigners bring into Indian markets. Now Indians have also increasingly started to invest abroad.As per data by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Indians invested $19,611 million in 2021-22, up from $12,684 million a year before that. Smart investors have been investing a part of their money abroad for better diversification for quite some time, taking benefit of the Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) of the Indian government, which allows every resident Indian individual to send $2,50,000 abroad per financial year. Over time, the RBI has increased this limit. When the scheme was started in 2004, it was just $25,000.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTraditionally, mutual funds have been offering international equities, particular US equities, to Indian investors. But Covid-19 has accelerated this pace. The strong recovery of the global stock markets, post the onset of the global Covid-19 pandemic, mainly due to the government money pumped in to support economies, found its way to the stock markets. Markets indices and several sectors, particularly the Information Technology sector stocks, picked up, on account of companies investing in technology to support work-from-home. In 2021-22 alone, Indians invested $747 million in international equity and debt investments, up from $472 million a year before.But there are many other reasons for Indians to send money abroad. Aside from investments, the LRS allows you to send money for travel, holidays, medical treatment, gifts, donations, funding foreign studies and even buying property. In 2021-22, Indians bought property worth $113 million. From London to Dubai and New York and the Caribbean, Indian are buying residencies abroad. Experts say that attractive yields and the potential for capital appreciation are just one reason. But the ease of getting permanent residencies on the condition that you invest a sum of money abroad buying property is also an offer many rich Indians cannot resist.For those who don’t wish the hassle of investing in physical property, Real Estate Investment Trusts (REIT) offer a slice of foreign property. Read this story to know how you can benefit from REITs.
 
The news published on the date October 06, 2022 11:21 AM IST with headline  LIC Multi-cap Fund opens today: Should you invest? is: 
 LIC Mutual Fund has announced the launch of the new fund offer (NFO) for LIC Multi-Cap Fund (LMCF), the second scheme from the fund house in CY22. Earlier this year it launched a money market fund. Both these launches are aimed at completing the product bouquet.The schemeStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLMCF is an open-ended scheme that will invest in equities and equity-related securities. The scheme, as per the scheme categorisation guidelines issued by market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), will invest 25 percent of the corpus in large-, mid- and small-cap stocks. The remaining 25 percent will be invested as per the fund manager’s discretion. The fund will be benchmarked against the Nifty 500 Multicap 50:25:25 Total Return Index.LIC Mutual Fund’s chief investment officer Yogesh Patil will be managing this fund.What works?
 
The news published on the date October 03, 2022 12:19 PM IST with headline  Sebi's top measures and their impact on the markets is: 
 On Friday, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) unveiled a series of measures after a scheduled meeting of its board. In her first press conference, Sebi’s new chief Madhabi Puri Buch said liberalising rules and keeping the market accountable through disclosures and transparency would be the key objectives of the regulator. Here is a ready reckoner of the key measures the regulator announced and their implications for the markets.Want money? Make disclosuresStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMeasure: Sebi proposed that companies seeking to raise money through an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of shares disclose key performance indicators that are not included in their financial statements. More importantly, the issuing company must disclose its price per share in past fund-raising rounds, giving potential investors a clear picture of their valuations. Funds raised going back three years need to be disclosed. This is significant after the losses investors made on recent IPOs by start-ups that raised questions about their valuations.Impact: The additional disclosures will enable investors to make an informed decision on whether to participate in an IPO or not. This also makes IPO managers accountable in explaining on how valuations are arrived at by giving a historic comparison of valuations. Start-ups will find it easier to convince investors of their potential because they would be able to put forth the unique parameters that are more representative of their business beyond traditional metrics.Fund manager under the radar
 
The news published on the date November 25, 2022 04:01 PM IST with headline  Sebi includes mutual fund units in Insider Trading regulations is: 
 Representative image Capital market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) in its board meeting on September 30 decided to include mutual fund units in the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.On July 8, Sebi had issued a consultation paper with a proposal to include mutual fund units under the purview of insider trading regulations. The regulator doesn’t want those aware of unpublished price-sensitive information to unfairly exit a scheme.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSebi’s decision stems from some instances it had observed in recent years when senior officials of a mutual fund house or part of the mutual fund industry eco-system had sold their units when they got a whiff of turbulence within the fund house.Although the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 prohibits fund managers and portfolio managers and senior executives of the fund industry to buy and sell when they have inside information, there was no bar on them to sell mutual fund units.Further, SEBI’s code of conduct prevents MF officials from dealing in shares and bonds that their in-house schemes hold in their portfolios. Although it doesn’t have such restrictions for MF units, it stops employees from selling schemes in case certain events are likely to occur.
 
The news published on the date October 02, 2022 04:55 PM IST with headline  Six money rules for your wallet this October is: 
 Whether you are using credit and debit cards for your day-to-day transactions or investing in National Pension System and mutual funds, there are a number of important changes coming up in October that will impact your money box.Tokenisation of cardsStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) tokenisation rule for credit and debit cards comes into effect from October 1. It prohibits all merchant websites from saving your card numbers, CVV or expiry date on their server for processing online transactions. Card users should either create a token before buying an item on the shopping website and save that token on the particular website (for future use) or generate a token and save it (for future use) at the time of payment after shopping.However, the debit and credit card tokenisation process is not mandatory and customers can choose not to tokenise their cards on a merchant’s website. In that case, a customer will have to enter the card details afresh for each transaction, including the 16-digit card number, expiry date and card verification value (CVV) while purchasing anything online.With tokenisation, the online shopping experience using credit and debit cards will become safer. The token masks the details of your card, so in case there is a data leak from the merchant website, the fraudster cannot misuse the card.
 
The news published on the date September 30, 2022 09:36 AM IST with headline  Samco MF allows investors to time equity markets and invest in equities is: 
 Representative image While announcing a new fund offer (NFO), the Samco Overnight Fund, Samco also unveiled a systematic transfer plan with a twist – the Samco Timer STP. The NFO will open on October 4.Timer STP is used to systematically transfer fund from Samco Overnight Fund to Samco Flexi Cap Fund – a diversified equity fund. The amount of money to be transferred from overnight fund to equity fund will be determined by EMOSI (equity margin of safety index), an in-house tool developed by the fund house.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis index ranges from 1 to 200 and is computed by taking into account various macro-economic and technical parameters. The fund house plans to publish the EMOSI everyday on its website. The index is high when the markets are attractive. The other way round also holds good.When the index indicates attractiveness of the market, the timer STP will allocate more to equities and when the markets are expensive, it will transfer a relatively less amount of money to equities.Timer STP instalments will range between 0.01 times and 6 times the base instalment amount the investor has agreed to invest while signing for the timer STP, depending on how attractive the market is determined by the EMOSI.
 
The news published on the date September 29, 2022 03:10 PM IST with headline  Recurring deposit or mutual fund SIP: Which is better? is: 
 In August 2022, Rs 12,693 crore came into mutual funds (MF) through systematic investment plans (SIP), the highest-ever monthly SIP inflow in MF history. Clearly, many investors over time have understood the benefits of investing in a staggered manner. But there is another avenue where you can invest systematically. Though returns are modest, the risk is far lower than a mutual fund. It’s called a recurring deposit and you can invest through your bank. Is it worth it?What is a recurring deposit?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecurring deposits (RDs) are debt instruments that provide capital guarantee to investors.Banks offer RDs for tenors of one to 10 years. The instrument allows investors to invest a fixed amount every month and build a corpus for short-term needs. It works just like a mutual fund's SIP. Investing in RDs brings in discipline. The catch, just like an MF SIP, is that you need to have money to invest at the end of every month.RDs are taxable. Neither the money invested nor the interest earned is exempt, and both are taxed as per the tax slab.
 
The news published on the date September 29, 2022 07:16 AM IST with headline  Retired? These are the best financial investments to earn a regular income is: 
 The biggest worry for retired people- or those who are nearing their retirement- is how to get a regular income in their retired years The biggest worry for retired people, or those who are nearing retirement, is how to earn a regular income once they stop working.For starters, retirement begins with some good news. On retirement, a person receives various end-of-service payouts (such as Employees’ Provident Fund, Gratuity, National Pension Scheme, etc.) that supplement other investments. These payouts amount to a large sum of money. Since income from active work stops, it wouldn’t be wrong to say that the retirement corpus is a sacrosanct bucket of money. And you cannot afford to make mistakes with this corpus.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | Go beyond just financial planning for a happy retirementYour retirement corpus needs to fulfil two goals. One: it should ensure a regular income. And two: the corpus should last for a good 20-30 years, since that is your life expectancy. Remember, for these 20-30 years, most do not get a regular salary or income. But your expenses will continue, even go up, especially medical expenses.Since the goals are in two parts, the corpus itself should be handled in two parts or buckets.
 
The news published on the date September 22, 2022 06:22 PM IST with headline  HDFC AMC announces NFOs of two new smart beta ETFs is: 
 HDFC Asset Management Company (AMC) on September 22 said it is launching two new smart beta exchange-traded funds (ETF) which will open early next week.The new fund offer (NFO) for HDFC Nifty200 Momentum 30 ETF and HDFC Nifty100 Low Volatility 30 ETF will start on September 26 and continue till October 3.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs the name suggests, they are based on Nifty200 Momentum 30 index and Nifty100 Low Volatility 30 index. Both have 30 stocks and are selected from Nifty 200 and Nifty 100 universe.These are also passively managed like any other ETF. However, smart beta strategies can be relatively riskier.In them, stock selection and weighting is based on pre-defined factors as spelled out in the underlying index methodology by index providers. Factors are characteristics of a stock like momentum and low volatility.
 
The news published on the date September 27, 2022 11:08 AM IST with headline  Debt mutual funds go conservative and wait in ambush is: 
 Six months since the potential risk class (PRC) norms issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) were implemented, mutual funds appear to be using the matrix to take buffer in terms of their risk capacity rather than align to the reported PRCs.The norms, issued by the capital market regulator in June 2021 and implemented in December, were aimed at improving risk disclosures in a bid to obviate the credit and liquidity crises that have plagued debt mutual funds in recent years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith those crises still fresh in mind, investors remain wary of higher risk in debt funds. And though corporate balance sheets have improved since then, mutual funds continue to shy away from taking higher risk.From the funds’ point of view, playing conservative ensures they can invest as and when an opportunity emerges.For investors, however, it becomes imperative to look at both reported PRCs and the actual level of risk captured by the risk-o-meter of the scheme.
 
The news published on the date September 19, 2022 08:51 AM IST with headline  Want a pie of Apple or Facebook? Here's how you can invest in equities listed overseas is: 
 Equity is the most popular asset class among Indians investing abroad. Over the years, it has become so popular, that the market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India had to suspend overseas investments by mutual funds (MFs) in January 2022 as the investment limit was breached. However, MFs is not the only avenue to invest abroad, it can be done directly through stock exchanges and fintech apps, too. In the financial year 2021-22, $747 million was sent outside for investment purposes.Financial planners increasingly recommended international equities to be a part of asset allocation. It gives you a holding in companies and sectors that are otherwise not available in India and allows diversification, both in terms of portfolios and country-wide.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe current fall in the overseas markets presents an opportunity for Indian investors. So what are the avenues and pros and cons of investing overseas?The mutual fund routeMF investments in overseas listed shares have been doing well. MF schemes focusing on international stocks managed assets worth Rs 38,014 crore as on August 31, 2022. These schemes offer exposure to global equities, region or country-specific stocks and themes. Some of these are actively-managed funds, while others are passively-managed and track country-specific or global indices.
 
The news published on the date September 16, 2022 04:50 PM IST with headline  Personal Finance | MFs use smart beta strategies to up returns in index funds is: 
 Move over plain vanilla, it may be time for the complex and the conspicuous. The world of index-based investment products, which has morphed rapidly in the past couple of years, is set to evolve further, thanks to funds that would appeal to post-millennials. A range of strategic indices seems to have usurped the older prima donnas, the Nifty and the Sensex, for want of more investment options. Newer varieties of index funds and ETFs (Exchange Traded Funds) are likely to draw..
 
The news published on the date September 22, 2022 11:18 AM IST with headline  The perfect investment portfolio tailored for Gen Z is: 
 Some of us tend to compare our career scenario with that of previous generations. We see only the difference in the salary amount, not realising that the Rs 100 in the 1960s is Rs 8,858 in 2022! (This is assuming an inflation rate of 7.5 percent.) The prices, background, socio-political situation, investment avenues and job scenario of Gen Z—everything is different from those of the bygone era.So, using the same old scale to measure success or efficiency in investing is simply erroneous. This is why Gen Z should look at building their portfolio in a manner that is a bit different from how well-established investors of the past would have.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere are some of the ways for zoomers to construct ‘The Perfect Portfolio’.1. Don’t just think about your future. The present also mattersWhile we all are in a hurry to avail the benefit of time in compounding our wealth for the future, don’t lose your sight of the ‘now’. The role of having an emergency fund in place cannot be stressed enough. Your emergency fund should be enough to cover your lifestyle for six months, at the minimum. And having it liquid is equally important. Fixed deposits (FDs) or liquid funds are ideal for building your emergency fund.
 
The news published on the date September 15, 2022 02:08 PM IST with headline  HDFC AMC share of equity AUM on a slow upward crawl is: 
 HDFC Asset Management’s battle to regain market share in equity assets of the mutual fund industry has slowly started bearing fruits for the company.Helped by an improvement in the performance of many of its equity mutual fund schemes, the asset manager’s market share in the industry equity assets has improved to 9.58 percent in August from a low of 9.37 percent in April, data compiled by Prime Database showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the previous financial year, the asset manager’s overall market share had slumped from 12.6 percent in March 2021 to 10.8 percent in March 2022 as investors continued to prefer other AMCs amid a roaring bull market in high growth stocks.“I think we are seeing the market share is stabilising with a fall in the market share in redemption and an increase in the market share in gross flows,” Chief Executive Officer Navneet Munot had told analysts in a post-earnings call in July.HDFC AMC’s investment style of deep value, led by its former Chief Investment Officer Prashant Jain, had underperformed in 2021 bull phase in Indian stocks. However, with value stocks now back in vogue, the asset manager has seen a revival in interest from investors.
 
The news published on the date September 14, 2022 09:14 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: How much will Nifty fall today? | KEC International, Ami Org & Bharat Forge In Focus |Morning Trade
 
The news published on the date September 13, 2022 08:16 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: High inflation to push RBI to hike rates again? | HDFC Life, Ujjivan Fin in focus | Morning Trade
 
The news published on the date September 14, 2022 12:24 PM IST with headline  Got Rs 10 lakh to invest? India’s largest MF distributor suggests to go for equities is: 
 Neeraj Choksi For the average person on the street, the name Neeraj Choksi may not ring a bell. But he is a giant in the Rs 36 trillion Indian mutual funds (MF) industry. Along with Jignesh Desai, he co-founded NJ India Invest, a financial products’ distribution firm, in 1994. Today, the firm is India’s largest mutual fund distributor, managing assets worth Rs 1.09 trillion in 2021-22, per Prime MF database.If NJ India Invest was a mutual fund house, it would be India’s 10th largest. To be sure, the company does have a mutual fund of its own, launched in 2021. In 2021-22, NJ India Invest earned distributor commissions to the tune of Rs 1,298.58 crore; the highest among all mutual fund distributors in India. The firm deploys a large network of sub-distributors in its network; around 27,000 active distributors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdChoksi believes that despite the volatility in equity markets, this is a good time to enter. In fact, he adds, any time is a good time to enter because it is impossible to time the markets. Moneycontrol asked Choksi where he believes investors should invest Rs 10 lakh today. Excerpts from that interaction follow:Is this a good time for a completely fresh and novice investor to enter equity markets?It’s not possible to time the markets. Ascertain your asset allocation. But do not let it be driven by markets. When you ascertain your asset allocation, take a look at your risk tolerance. This means, if markets go down and continue to slide, how much can you tolerate? If you haven’t ever invested in equities — or are in your first or second job — and want to invest in equities, invest slowly. Have more in debt funds and start your equity investments with smaller amounts. Then, you can slowly increase your equity investments.How long should investors keep their money in equity? Is it okay to sell equities before three years?The longer your holding period, the better. Stay invested in equities for at least five years. Then, the probability of losing money goes down.
 
The news published on the date September 12, 2022 09:38 AM IST with headline  Investors earn fewer returns than mutual funds: Axis MF study is: 
 Although mutual funds are seen as wealth creation tools, many investors lack the patience to stay with them for the long-term.That’s one of the big reasons why the returns you get in your hand are far less than the amount shown in your fund’s fact sheet, experts say.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA recent note by Axis Mutual Fund says investor returns were significantly worse than both point-to-point fund returns as well as returns delivered by systematic investment plans (SIPs) For the study, it looked at equity, hybrid and debt funds.UnderperformanceAxis MF studied mutual fund returns over the past 20 years until March 31, 2022. Actively-managed equity funds gave 19.1 percent returns, it found. Investors earned only 13.8 percent. Hybrid funds returned 12.5 percent, but investors earned around 7.4 percent.
 
The news published on the date September 16, 2022 05:23 PM IST with headline  Mrin Agarwal managed IT czars', cricketers' money, now she arms young India with financial knowledge is: 
 Mrin Agarwal From trying her best to convince people two decades back that mutual funds (MF) weren’t as bad as they looked to now convincing youngsters to stay away from cryptocurrencies, Bengaluru-based Mrin Agarwal has come a long way.These days, Agarwal, a former wealth managers, spends most of her time teaching corporate employees of some of India’s largest companies how to manage their money, why they should invest regularly, how much insurance they need, how can they save taxes and so on. But it wasn’t meant to be this way.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMutual fund: a bad word!When Agarwal took up her first job at Aditya Birla Sun Life Distribution Co in 1996 as a relationship manager, her work was to sell financial products like mutual funds, bonds, corporate fixed deposits and so on. The Indian MF industry was in its nascent stages. “People had suffered losses in Morgan Stanley India mutual fund, India’s first foreign fund. And public sector fund houses weren’t giving good returns either. Mutual fund had become a bad word,” she recalls. Systematic investment plan was a new animal.But her early years doing the grind prepared her for her next job, at Citibank. The foreign bank was, and still is, one of India’s largest mutual fund distributors. As per the Prime MF database, Citibank earned distributor commissions worth Rs 138.30 crore in financial 2021-22; the 10th highest commission earner. Being a premier wealth manager, even in those days, Agarwal started handling big money. And even bigger clients.Having shifted to Bengaluru by then, she started managing the wealth of founders of some of India’s earliest technology companies, some of whom are industry leaders today. She had the keys to some of the Bengaluru-based cricketers’ wealth as well. Add to that, the head of a prominent pharmaceutical firm that gained prominence during Covid-19, but was a start-up in the early 2000s; all had their banking relationships with Citibank. The bank managed their wealth too, a large chunk of which came to be Agarwal’s responsibility, many of whom were her own acquisitions.
 
The news published on the date September 12, 2022 08:18 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Why investors are cautious on pharma sector | InterGlobe, Reliance In Focus | Morning Trade
 
The news published on the date September 16, 2022 05:37 PM IST with headline  Equity funds stare at drying coffers as market volatility shrinks cash flow by 31% is: 
 Volatility in stock markets seems to be playing on the minds of mutual fund (MF) investors.According to the monthly data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), equity funds saw 31 percent less inflows in August 2022, compared to the previous month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHybrid funds also saw increased net outflows in August. Total assets under management (AUM) for the MF fund industry stood at Rs 39.33 lakh crore, as on August 31, 2022, compared to Rs 37.74 lakh crore, as on July 31, 2022.Among equity funds, flexi-cap funds saw net inflows of Rs 2,099 crore in August, followed by mid-cap and small-cap funds, with net inflows of Rs 1,479 crore and 1,259 crore, respectively. Sector or thematic funds saw net outflows of Rs 1,266 crore.Equity-linked saving schemes (ELSS) and dividend yield schemes saw net outflows in August. In July 2022, all equity fund categories received inflows.
 
The news published on the date September 09, 2022 11:47 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Can Nifty make an all-time high by Diwali? | Century, PNC Infra, Hatsun in focus | MorningTrade
 
The news published on the date September 08, 2022 01:52 PM IST with headline  Sundaram Mutual’s flexi cap NFO mops up Rs 1,679 crore is: 
 Sundaram Mutual has raised Rs 1,679 crore in a Flexi Cap new fund offer. It collected the total sum from 71,720 investors. The offer, which opened for subscription on August 16 and closed on August 30, was the second largest in the fund house's 25-year history.It will reopen for subscription on September 12.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSundaram Flexi Cap is an open-ended equity scheme which invests across sectors in large, mid, and small-cap stocks.Sunil Subramaniam, managing director of Sundaram Mutual said, “The support of more than 5800 Distribution Partners and the faith reposed by 70,000 + Investors has far exceeded our expectations. It is now our turn to exceed their expectations."He also attributed the success to the high octane multi-media campaign across Print, Digital and OOH of the ‘Laughing Buddha’ creative which appears to have instantly resonated with investors.Roughly half of the collections for the offer were made digitally.The fund will be managed by Sudhir Kedia - Fund Manager – Equity and Ravi Gopalakrishnan, CIO - Equity. The benchmark chosen is the Nifty 500 TRI Index.Sundaram Asset Management Company has assets under management of about Rs 54,840 crores as on August 31, 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementIt has over 1.1 million active investors and 80+ branches across the country
 
The news published on the date September 07, 2022 08:49 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Will Nifty see a new wave of selling? | Markets with Santo & CJ
 
The news published on the date September 06, 2022 08:16 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Oil prices jump as OPEC looks to cut output | VMart, Delhivery & HAL in focus | Morning Trade
 
The news published on the date September 05, 2022 02:39 PM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Nifty making move towards Mt 18,000? | Markets with Santo & CJ
 
The news published on the date September 05, 2022 08:46 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Will 'Brahmastra' bring divine rejuvenation for PVR? | Markets with Santo & CJ
 
The news published on the date September 05, 2022 08:12 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Foreign investment in India equities at 20 month high | ACC, SpiceJet, HFCL in focus | Morning Trade
 
The news published on the date August 30, 2022 02:55 PM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Bull market is back! Will Nifty head for the moon? | Markets with Santo & CJ
 
The news published on the date August 29, 2022 08:56 AM IST with headline  How to navigate Powell-fuelled selloff across markets | Markets with Santo & CJ
 
The news published on the date August 29, 2022 08:14 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: What to expect from Mukesh Ambani’s speech at RIL AGM; Cipla, UltraTech in focus | Morning Trade
 
The news published on the date August 25, 2022 08:20 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Exploring chemical sector investment opportunities | RBL Bank, NHPC in focus
 
The news published on the date August 24, 2022 12:34 PM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Tata Motors on course to enter the fast lane? | Markets with Santo & CJ
 
The news published on the date September 16, 2022 05:42 PM IST with headline  Avoiding portfolio overlap while investing in mutual funds is: 
 ‘Portfolio diversification’, as a concept, is much like Soan Papdi for the investing community. It is transferred from one person to another but is hardly consumed by anyone. The reason is not that people do not understand its importance; rather, they don’t know the exact math behind it.Diversification means spreading your investments across instruments to minimise the risk. But what combination of instruments will achieve the result, is sometimes hard to figure out.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor instance, buying shares of 10 different companies will help you minimise company-specific risks. But if these 10 shares belong to the same sector, you’ll expose your portfolio to sector-specific risks. And that’s precisely why this is not called optimal diversification.This mostly happens when investors try to create a mutual fund portfolio. We believe that schemes with different names or different categories have disparate strategies, but this is not always the case.
 
The news published on the date August 17, 2022 05:04 PM IST with headline  Commodity Markets Live: Metal prices surge, stimulus expectation from China; Zinc in focus
 
The news published on the date August 17, 2022 05:18 PM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Steel stocks are rallying, should you participate? | Markets with Santo & CJ
 
The news published on the date August 17, 2022 07:34 AM IST with headline  Move over Bitcoin, here comes UPI, the next big investment idea is: 
 Bitcoin was, and is, touted as a tool of financial inclusion. After 13 years, Bitcoin has an estimated 100-120 million users out of a worldwide household population of two billion. Contrast this with UPI with more than 600 million users in India, in a household population of around 300 million. This means that, on an average, there are nearly two users of UPI in each household.UPI: The next big stock ideaStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the June 2022 data from NPCI, the total value transacted, annualised, is at $1.5 trillion. In terms of transactions, annualised, more than 70 billion transactions are carried out on the UPI platform. It is being extended to more than 30 countries worldwide. UPI is developed and managed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), an Indian company — talk about Make in India and Make for the World.UPI costs nothing to the users and is a real-time payments system. It instantly deducts amounts as low as Re 1 from a bank account and credits it to another. This revolutionary platform, growing at more than 100 percent compounded annualised growth rate (CAGR) over the last five years, has been hailed as a world leader in real-time payments by ACI Worldwide, and the rest of the world is forced to look to India to learn what the future looks like.You can use UPI on more than 70 apps, with new ones being launched daily. However, three apps dominate the landscape with nearly 95 percent market share.
 
The news published on the date August 16, 2022 10:37 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live | Hero Moto, LIC & Zee Ent in focus | Investors await cues on US Fed rate hikes
 
The news published on the date August 11, 2022 08:48 AM IST with headline  I-T department questioned two Axis MF executives in frontrunning case is: 
 The income-tax department, which said it conducted searches on a former official of Axis Asset Management Co. and others associated with the company in connection with a case of suspected frontrunning, also questioned two serving executives of the mutual fund house, people familiar with the matter told Moneycontrol.“The Income Tax Department carried out a search and seizure operation on July 28 on an ex-fund manager and chief trader of equities of a prominent mutual fund house along with related sharebrokers, middlemen and entry operators,” the finance ministry said in a statement on August 5.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe search covered more than 25 premises spread across Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Bhuj and Kolkata, the ministry said, without identifying the fund house and the individuals.The “ex-fund manager and chief trader of equities” mentioned in the ministry’s statement is Axis AMC’s former fund manager and chief dealer Viresh Joshi, who was sacked in May following allegations he was involved in frontrunning, the people said.The department also questioned Jinesh Gopani, head of equity at Axis AMC, as part of the search and seizure operation, the people said.
 
The news published on the date August 11, 2022 08:47 AM IST with headline  Stock Market Live: Coal India to burn bright after Q1 results? | Markets with Santo & CJ
 
The news published on the date September 16, 2022 02:25 PM IST with headline  AMFI July 2022 report highlights: Average AUM at Rs 37.76 lakh crore, MF folios at all-time high of 13.55 crore is: 
 Representative image The mutual fund industry's net assets under management (AUM) in July 2022 stood at Rs 37.74 lakh crore, and the net average assets under management (AAUM) came in at Rs 37.76 lakh crore, the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) said in its monthly report released on August 8.The overall mutual fund folios crossed at an all-time high of 13.55 crore, and retail folios also peaked to a record high of 10.80 crore, the report said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere are the key highlights of AMFI July 2022 report:- The number of SIP accounts stood at the highest-ever, 5,61,94,348 (5.61 crores), and monthly SIP contribution was Rs 12,140 crore. The number of new SIPs registered during the month was stated as 17.42 lakh. The SIP AUM at the end of July 2022 stood at Rs 6.09 lakh crore.- All open-ended growth/equity oriented schemes, income/debt oriented schemes, Index Funds, ETFs FoFs and Gold ETFs, witnessed positive net flows at combined Rs 28,098.89 crore during the month.
 
The news published on the date August 10, 2022 02:42 PM IST with headline  Equity MFs see funds flow decline 42% in July as investors shy away from volatility is: 
 Representative image. Volatile stock markets are seen taking a toll on investor sentiment. Net inflows (more inflows than outflows) in equity mutual funds fell by 42 percent in July to Rs 8,898 crore compared to Rs 15,497 crore in June 2022 – a drop of 42 percent, as per the monthly data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India.The total assets under management for the mutual fund industry rose to Rs 37.74 trillion as of July 31, 2022, compared to Rs 35.64 trillion. The debt funds saw net inflows of Rs 4,930 crore in July compared to net outflows of Rs 92,247 crore in the previous month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdContribution through systematic investment plans – the preferred means of investing in mutual funds for individual investors, fell marginally to Rs 12,139 crore in July compared to Rs 12,275 crore in the previous month. The SIP accounts went up to 5.61 crore in July compared to 5.55 crore in the previous month.Among equity funds, small-cap funds and flexi cap funds were prominent gainers as they received net inflows of Rs 1,779 crore and 1,381 crore respectively. All open-ended equity fund categories received net inflows in July.Akhil Chaturvedi, Chief Business Officer, Motilal Oswal AMC says, “July seems to be month where investors has taken some profits off as markets went up. Momentum was coming down all through last few months as the markets were correcting but July was a steep fall and excluding SIP numbers, we might have witnessed actual net negative sales in July."
 
The news published on the date August 08, 2022 08:11 AM IST with headline  What to do when your fund manager quits? is: 
 In the mutual fund industry, everyone talks about the long term. But like many of us, even fund managers quit their jobs. And when a popular old-timer moves on, then it makes news.Most of you are already aware that recently, Prashant Jain of HDFC AMC resigned after being its fund manager for decades. Despite the recent phase of underperformance, which can be attributed to contrarian stock bets, there is absolutely no doubt that the long-term performance that his funds delivered (given the AUM) were excellent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis move has many investors of his funds asking questions like:Do ‘star’ fund managers take ‘performance’ with them?Should investments in the fund be redeemed immediately?Should fresh SIP investment be continued or stopped?These are not easy questions to answer and if we look at some fund manager exits, then there is no one clear answer.Recent history of impact of star fund manager exitsHave a look at how funds fared before and after the fund manager’s exit:
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2022 08:37 PM IST with headline  Account Aggregator ecosystem gets a boost as all PSU banks go live is: 
 The Account Aggregator (AA) ecosystem has got a major boost as all the public sector banks (PSU banks) in the country have onboarded the platform, according to a tweet by Sahamati, a non-profit collective of the framework, bringing over 1 billion accounts on the AA framework.While many private sector and some public sector banks had gone live on the AA framework, some of India’s largest PSU banks including State Bank of India (SBI), Canara Bank, Punjab National Bank (PNB) and Indian Bank among others, were yet to onboard the platform until July. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had reportedly instructed these banks to go live on the AA framework by end of July.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe participation of major PSU banks is key to the success of AA’s framework as it will open a window for a huge pool of the banks’ customers to use the framework and allow easy access to financial services. Today, these PSU banks cater to a large chunk of India’s population.In January, Moneycontrol reported that SBI was working on a pricing model because the bank wants to be compensated as it will be the largest information provider. The bank was also working on the infrastructure needed to manage and share the huge pool of data it possesses as the data is supposed to be accessed from its core banking system, which will require additional levels of security and audits.What is AA framework?
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2022 06:09 AM IST with headline  Are non-ESG funds better than ESG funds at their game? is: 
 The soaring popularity of environmental, social and governance (ESG) funds in recent years presents a compelling case for incorporation of ESG fund-scoring by the fund management industry in India.There has been a surge in sustainable assets globally, especially in the US, where nearly 33 per cent, or $17.1 trillion of the total $51.4 trillion assets under management (AUM) as of 2020, was in this segment.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPension funds had the lion’s share of this, with nearly $6.2 trillion of their assets in the US as of 2020 being in the ESG space. Mutual funds with ESG criteria in their investment strategy totalled another $3.1 trillion.Back home, it is only recently that such funds have gained currency. The combined AUM of the 10 ESG funds currently in operation was Rs 11,818 crore as on March 31, 2022 (excluding fund of funds), having risen five-fold over the past three years. As many as seven of these were started in fiscal 2021.The growth is being driven by special investment vehicles in the ESG segment and an increasing preference of underlying companies for a sustainable, long-term approach to growth, which is adding to the share of sustainable assets managed by mutual funds.
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2022 07:41 PM IST with headline  Franklin Templeton mutual fund to launch first scheme since shutting debt funds in 2020
 
The news published on the date August 24, 2022 10:18 AM IST with headline  IT sector funds are down but not out. How safe is it to invest in tech stocks? is: 
 Representative Image The information technology (IT) sector has turned out to be one of the worst affected by the recent volatility in the stock market. In CY2022, technology sector funds as a category have lost 22.78 percent, compared to a 1.31 percent loss reported by flexicap funds, as per Value Research. The sector was the darling of many investors last year. Does the recent fall call for a look at these funds?Valuations matterStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe IT sector houses some of the best names in corporate India. Many of these companies have good balance sheets and healthy earnings growth. They are seen as cash-generating machines. However, valuations surged dramatically when investors the world over started chasing tech stocks in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Work from home meant that software and hardware technology that enabled remote access and communication from anywhere at any time were in high demand, as were companies that enabled this. The Nifty IT Index quoted at a price to earnings multiple at 39.58 times on January 4, 2022.Indian IT stocks were riding on the global positive sentiment. But things changed earlier in 2022.Some of the companies in this sector that were listed overseas, especially in the new-age tech segment, were not profitable. And when interest rates started to rise, these stocks were dumped by investors. The rub-off effect spread across highly valued tech stocks both overseas and at home. The Nifty IT Index now quotes at 28,857 from a high of 39,370 registered on January 4, 2022. The price to earnings multiple now quotes at 26 times.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2022 01:14 PM IST with headline  Prashant Jain had trimmed his ‘contrarian’ bets ahead of his departure is: 
 HDFC's Prashant Jain (Image credit: Suneesh Kalarickal) Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × The exit of Prashant Jain, the largest public equity mutual fund manager in the country stands out as a case study of sorts for more than what the market may have recognised yet. A study of his portfolio reveals that not only was he a contrarian investor not shying away from unpopular value bets, he has also realigned his portfolios to make it more palatable for the incoming fund manager who will carry the burden of stepping into his large shoes but may not have the clout to carry on high exposure to stocks far removed from popular appeal and prevailing market sentiment.Over the past year, Jain has sold down his ‘contrarian’ bets right from Coal India, NTPC, SBI, ITC, Power Grid Corporation and REC. Jain has held these stocks for several years based on their intrinsic value and even doubled down on some of them as the market failed to recognise their worth and the stock prices fell. The doubling down helped him make a comeback when the tide turned for these stocks.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlthough several of his contrarian calls are back in the reckoning, and the value trade continues to be in play in the wake of growth uncertainty in several businesses, Jain has trimmed exposure to these stocks from the levels he has maintained in the past few years.SBI, which used to be the top holding in two funds HDFC Flexicap (9.94%) and HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund (9.38%) as on June 30, 2021, continues to remain on top of the pack but exposure to the bank has been cut to 8.15% and 7.10% respectively. The stock used to be the third biggest holding in HDFC Top 100 (6.69%) and now ranks sixth with an exposure of 4.59%. Jain has sold 14 million shares under the Flexicap Fund, 27.8 million shares in the Balanced Advantage Fund and 12 million shares under the Top 100 fund during the past year.His next big bet NTPC, which was his second biggest holding in Balanced Advantage Fund (5.15%), fifth holding in Flexicap Fund (5.25%) are now down to 3.9% and 4.4% of the respective fund’s net asset value. He has sold off 67 million shares and 32 million shares in the two funds respectively. Now, NTPC ranks fifth in the Balanced Advantage portfolio and seventh in the Flexicap portfolio. Similarly, in Coal India, another top holding, he has sold off 22 million shares and 13 million shares under the Balanced Advantage Fund and Flexicap Fund respectively. Now, Coal India ranks third in Balanced Advantage, seventh in the Top 100 portfolio and eighth in the Flexicap fund. Similarly, exposure has been cut to stocks like Power Grid Corporation, Power Finance Corporation, and REC which Jain has been a big votary of thanks to their high dividend yield.
 
The news published on the date July 27, 2022 02:36 PM IST with headline  Sebi seeks views on execution-only platforms for direct investment in MF schemes is: 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the financial market regulator, has sought feedback on a proposed regulatory framework for transaction-only platforms, which allow transactions in mutual funds without the help of distributors.The growing popularity of direct plans amid the absence of clearly defined regulations for execution-only platform (EOP) service providers makes this an important regulatory move. Here’s how it can impact you as an investor.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNeed for a new frameworkExecution-only services for investing in direct plans of mutual funds are in demand. While a few companies enrol themselves as registered investment advisors (RIA) and offer these services, others are registered as stock brokers. But there is a small gap. When an individual uses execution-only services – chooses to transact on his own – there is no clarity on how their interests are protected.“For the investors who are not clients in terms of investment advisory or stock broking or portfolio management regulations, the risk associated with such transactions cannot be overlooked as the non-clients do not have any recourse or protection available under any regulatory framework. Thus, there is a need to strike balance between the convenience and investor protection,” SEBI said in its consultation paper.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2022 06:35 PM IST with headline  Exclusive: HDFC MF finalises money managers to handle Prashant Jain's funds is: 
 HDFC's Prashant Jain (Image credit: Suneesh Kalarickal) Highly placed sources are telling Moneycontrol, that the process to find suitable money managers to take over marquee funds handled by Prashant Jain is underway.Moneycontrol learns that HDFC MF has identified fund managers to oversee Prashant Jain's three top schemes - namely HDFC Flexicap Fund, HDFC Top 100 Fund, and HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund.A heartfelt message from team HDFC Mutual Fund.️ pic.twitter.com/R1gy0zZhdkStory continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad— HDFC Mutual Fund (@hdfcmf) July 25, 2022Roshi Jain - HDFC Flexicap FundRoshi Jain has been roped in to manage HDFC Flexicap Fund. She is a senior fund manager & joined the AMC in December 2021. Previously, she was VP-Portfolio Management at Franklin Templeton.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2022 09:37 AM IST with headline  Prashant Jain, India’s Peter Lynch, is legendary not just for his performance, but also his character is: 
 HDFC's Prashant Jain (Image credit: Suneesh Kalarickal) The man, his body of work, and the legend that he is will be missed on Dalal Street. Prashant Jain put in his papers at HDFC Mutual Fund three days ago after a glittering career that spanned nearly three decades.“It’s a huge loss," said Dhirendra Kumar, CEO of fund tracking firm Value Research. “He is a repository of knowledge with a very impressive history that is without any embarrassing pothole.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKumar should know. He has diligently tracked the celebrity fund manager since 1991 at HDFC AMC and at three other money managers. Value-oriented Jain, an alumni of IIM-Bangalore and IIT-Kanpur, has been India’s longest serving fund manager and among the most successful, too.“He will be sorely missed. The value of Prashant Jain lies in the fact that he prevents a financial blunder from hitting the AMC. He stuck to what he knows best: managing funds,’’ Kumar adds.A quiet and extremely reserved Jain, always polite to a fault, set the tone of India’s equity research-led investing from 1991, when the nation liberalised and welcomed foreign investment in a bid to boost its ailing, Soviet-era economy.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2022 01:46 PM IST with headline  Beyond Prashant Jain: How HDFC AMC has built its succession plan is: 
 HDFC's Prashant Jain (Image credit: Suneesh Kalarickal) On July 22, 2022, Prashant Jain, Executive Director and Chief Investment Officer (CIO) at HDFC Asset Management Co Ltd, resigned and stepped down from his role. He is 54.His role of CIO will now be split as per the succession plan that HDFC AMC communicated to the BSE. Chirag Setalvad, who is currently a senior equity fund manager and has been with the fund house since 2007, will take over as the head of equities. Shobhit Mehrotra, the fund house’s senior-most fixed income fund manager, will take over as head of fixed income funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor industry insiders though, Jain’s exit was only a matter of time. Jain has been with the fund house for 19 years since the day HDFC AMC acquired erstwhile Zurich India Asset Management Co Ltd. He was the CIO at Zurich India before the acquisition. Jain spent 10 years at Zurich India, making it a total of 29 years without switching jobs.But for a few years now, Jain and his former boss Milind Barve who retired last year, have been trying to bring more depth to equity fund management.Expanding fund management“Right from the time Milind Barve was around — and under the guidance of Jain — the fund house had put together a plan to bring about different styles of fund management into the house,” says a person close to the developments who did not wish to be named.
 
The news published on the date September 16, 2022 02:23 PM IST with headline  Prashant Bhai is retiring better than Donald Bradman: Nilesh Shah, CEO, Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund is: 
 Now I know the feeling which players and spectators felt when Donald Bradman announced his retirement or will feel when Roger Federer announces his retirement.Prashant Bhai is a legend. He has been a brand ambassador for the mutual fund industry for the last three decades. Most importantly he is a true gentleman.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe is a legend not because he is the first fund manager to manage more than Rs 1 trillion in equity funds, has managed funds for more than three decades, or his fund has delivered four times more return than the market over a long period of 26 years.Also read | 'Investment discipline over returns chase', Prashant Jain's peers weigh on his legacyHe is a legend because he is a role model for all of us.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2022 07:22 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Prashant Jain: The Last Rockstar is: 
 The maverick fund manager oversaw investments of over Rs 4 lakh crore at HDFC Asset Management Co and directly managed a quarter of those assets Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf you had invested Rs 1,000 in the Centurion Prudence Fund in January 1994, and stuck with the investment, it would be worth close to Rs 100,000 now. A 100 times return in 28 years, or a compounded annual growth rate of 17.87 percent.Of course, the Centurion Prudence Fund doesn’t exist. It has metamorphosed into what is now the HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund. Its fund manager Prashant Jain, one of the poster boys of the mutual fund in India and among the longest serving, has hung up his boots, Moneycontrol reported today.Jain oversaw investments of over Rs 4 lakh crore at HDFC Asset Management Co and directly managed a quarter of those assets.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2022 04:52 PM IST with headline  Prashant Jain quits HDFC AMC; A look at his career, investment philosophy & life | mutual fund news
 
The news published on the date July 20, 2022 10:20 AM IST with headline  Z Funds: Selling mutual funds to Bharat is: 
 Manish Kothari and Vidhi Tuteja, co-founders of Z Funds The assets under management (AUM) of the Rs 37 lakh crore Indian mutual funds (MF) industry has grown by 19 per cent on a compounded basis in the last seven years. Monthly inflows into MFs through systematic investment plans (SIPs) have risen by 25 percent in the last six years.There’s just one little problem. A significant part of the industry’s investors is in bigger towns and cities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to data of the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI), the MF industry’s trade body, nearly 83 percent of assets come from the Top 30 towns, known as T30 in MF industry’s lingo, as on June 2022. Just 17 percent comes Beyond the Top 30 or B30 towns of India.Now, Gurugram-based MF distributor, Z Funds wants to change that.Launched in 2020 by Manish Kothari and Vidhi Tuteja, Z Funds wants to get investors from some of India’s smallest towns. Kothari is not new to the Indian MF industry. After having worked at wealth management firms like Stanchart, Citibank and IIFL, he set up the mutual funds vertical at Paisabazaar.com. Tuteja, too, had worked in Paisabazaar.com, earlier.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2022 01:41 PM IST with headline  Despite macro challenges, India holds golden opportunity to outshine most major economies: Experts is: 
 Representative image. India has been one of the fastest growing economies of the world for the past few years and it even outpaced most of the major economies during the pandemic-induced. The buoyancy of the Indian economy is reflected in the stock markets which attracted strong flow of foreign funds through the major part of the past decade.The Indian markets appeared brighter than most global markets during the pandemic, thanks to a sudden gush of funds from foreign institutional investors (FIIs) and foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). Participation from domestic retail investors, too, recorded an unprecedented surge. They both worked in tandem and took the indices to record highs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBefore the beginning of all this brouhaha, the valuations of Indian companies and markets were well within a reasonable range which found strong takers from foreign funds. The valuations began coming down from their unreasonable levels with steep corrections through the past nine months of unabated selling by foreign investors.But, despite all these ups and downs in the markets that are more due to macro reasons, rather than micro, experts are confident of the India growth story and its robust fundamentals.But does it really hold true? Does the Indian economy really present a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for wealth creation in the so-called golden decade? Or, are we in the midst of global geopolitical and macro risks and the golden decade is just a wish? As per Kamal Manocha, Founder & CEO, PMS AIF World, these are very important questions that investors have on their minds today and so were discussed at a panel discussion at the PMS AIF World 3rd Mid-year Summit that was held recently.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2022 10:11 AM IST with headline  Long-short funds can be a safe investment option in uncertain times, suggest experts is: 
 Retail investors have sprung up majorly to join their homeland institutional peers in a bid to heal the wounds inflicted by the unabated exodus of foreign institutions from the Indian equity markets.Foreign institutional investors (FII) have pulled out close to Rs 2.83 lakh crore in the first half of 2022 itself, according to data from the markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi). The markets, however, didn't react in the likely manner, thanks to a whopping Rs 2.31 lakh crore pumped in by domestic institutional and retail investors during this period. Equity Mutual Funds had a share of Rs 1.18 lakh crore in the pie.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRetail participation in equities has surged not only from direct trading as record number of demat accounts were opened during pandemic, investors are also increasingly opting for the mutual funds route as well to make investments in equity. Apart from the normal equity and debt funds, there is another category that's gaining ground these days. These are long-short funds.So, what exactly are long-short funds? What is it that an investor can equate it to? Is it a substitute for a debt fund or a balanced equity fund or is it a new asset class which needs to be seen with different risk and return thought process? These were some of the questions that were discussed by Kamal Manocha, Founder and CEO, PMS AIF World, on a panel of three top AIF thought leaders at the PMS AIF World 3rd Mid-Year Summit held on July 8–9.PMS AIF World is a new-age investment services platform focused on the space of alternates for those HNIs who are looking to do analytics and knowledge driven good investments.
 
The news published on the date July 20, 2022 10:56 AM IST with headline  The 18 stocks and 6 MFs from top-five PMS schemes that beat Nifty in June is: 
 Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × As has become a trend for the past few months, the Indian market continued to stay largely in the negative territory in June, in sync with its global peers that are also going through a turbulence because of various economic and geopolitical reasons.The intense selling pressure in the markets was mainly on the anticipation of a sustained higher inflation and faster normalisation in the policy rates in major economies. Global supply chain, too, continued to be disrupted mainly because of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and fresh outbreak of Covid-19 in China and subsequent restrictions imposed on movement. Domestic equity market too has been a victim of these eventualities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflation: The Biggest Concern for the MarketsInflation continued to hog the limelight and remained the biggest concern for economists and central banks the world over. There is, however, a feeling in some circles that the inflation might be on its way to peaking out sooner, rather than later, and that will give some comfort to the central banks to reconsider their aggressive stance towards interest rate hikes. Controlling inflation takes a toll on the economic growth which, in turn, affects the whole gamut of macro and micro factors that affect the global population.“With actions from various global economies and from the Indian government, we feel that the inflation will start easing in the coming quarters as the international crude prices are already below $100 a barrel, which is a positive for the importing country like India,” said Rajnath Yadav, Research Analyst at Choice Broking. This is one of the key reasons for the recent optimism in the domestic markets. “However, we believe this momentum is short-lived,” Yadav said.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2022 12:09 PM IST with headline  AMCs add 51 lakh investor accounts in June quarter on increasing awareness about MFs is: 
 Asset management companies added 51 lakh investor accounts in June quarter, taking the total tally to 13.46 crore, on increasing awareness about mutual funds and ease of transactions through digitisation, and experts hope the ongoing financial year to be promising too. In comparison, 93 lakh accounts (or folios in mutual fund parlance) were opened in March quarter, while a staggering 3.2 crore investor accounts were added in the last 12 months, data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed.Although there were fewer folios in April-June this year than in the March quarter, there was still an increase, which is an indication that investors continued to invest despite the volatility in the market. Geopolitical tensions like the Russia-Ukraine War, increasing inflation, rising bond yields, and the Federal Reserve’s hawkish views on interest rates are a few factors that can be attributed to this, said Priya Agrawal, Money Coach at LXME.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGoing forward, the ongoing financial year appears to be promising in terms of folios growth, she said. Market conditions, geopolitical situations, inflation rates, financialisation of investments and increasing awareness among the people are some of the elements that may have an impact on this industry, she added."Majority of mutual fund retail investors invest in equity funds. The market conditions will have a role to play in increasing the number of folios and investors. The participation will increase when more stability returns in the stock market, which may happen in the coming few quarters. Hence, we believe the reach and penetration of mutual funds will increase this financial year," Harshad Chetanwala, Co-founder of MyWealthGrowth.com, said.According to the data, the number of folios with 43 fund houses rose to 13.46 crore in June 2022 from 12.95 crore in March 2022, registering a gain of 51 lakh during the three-month period. The industry crossed a milestone of 10 crore folios in May 2021. The number of folios under equity, hybrid and solution oriented schemes, wherein the maximum investment is from retail segment, stood at about 10.72 crore as of June quarter 2022, rising nearly 4 per cent from the preceding January-March period.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2022 08:34 PM IST with headline  SEBI mulls changes in insider trading norms to include dealing in mutual fund units is: 
 The market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) issued a consultation paper on July 8, to include dealing in mutual fund units under the Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations.This essentially means that if a fund manager or any other senior fund house official knows of any price sensitive information that could impact any schemes’ net asset value (NAV), then they cannot sell the MF units.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe regulator, in its consultation paper, pointed out two incidents without getting into specifics as reasons for these changes.In one case, it says it observed that a Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA) of a mutual fund had redeemed all its units from a scheme, being privy to certain sensitive information pertaining to the scheme of a mutual fund, which was not yet communicated to the unitholders of a particular scheme.In other incident, it says a few key personnel of a mutual fund were found to have redeemed their holdings in the schemes, while in possession of certain sensitive information not communicated to the unit holders of the schemes.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2022 01:05 PM IST with headline  Equity MFs see Rs 15,498 crore inflow in June amid volatile stock market is: 
 Equity mutual funds witnessed a net inflow of Rs 15,498 crore in June amid heightened volatility in the stock market and consistent selling by Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs). Equity mutual funds witnessed positive momentum for the 16th straight month in June.Inflows into equity mutual funds in June was much lower compared to the net inflow of Rs 18,529 crore seen in May, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed on Friday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe lower quantum of net inflow from the previous month could be attributed to investors adopting the cautious path given the ongoing challenges to the investment environment.Equity schemes have been witnessing net inflow since March 2021, highlighting the positive sentiment among investors. Prior to this, such schemes had consistently witnessed outflows for eight months from July 2020 to February 2021, losing Rs 46,791 crore.All the equity-oriented categories received net inflows in June with the Flexi-cap Funds category being the biggest beneficiary with a net inflow of Rs 2,512 crore. This was followed by the multi-cap fund that witnessed Rs 2,130 crore net infusion. The latest inflow comes at a time when the domestic equity market is reeling under severe pressure.
 
The news published on the date July 06, 2022 04:40 PM IST with headline  Mutual Funds | There’s no conflict between Sharpe Ratio and Treynor Ratio is: 
 (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) Risk and return are two dimensions of investment performance. Investors tend to focus on return, with little regard to the risk involved, while they should look at the risks along with the return. There are many risk-adjusted return ratios, and their performance measures assess the performance of investments in terms of return per unit of risk.Mutual funds periodically communicate their performance in a document called factsheet. There are a few fund tracking entities providing such information as well. In a typical mutual fund factsheet, investors see return disclosed for different periods of times i.e. since the inception of the fund, last 10 years, last five years, last three years, last one year, etc.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFactsheets also provide information of various measures of risk such as standard deviation and Beta. Standard deviation is a measure of the total risk, while Beta is a measure of market risk. In addition to return and risk, factsheets provide information of some risk-adjusted return measures such as Sharpe Ratio and Treynor Ratio. These risk-adjusted performance measures assess the performance of a fund in terms of return per unit of risk.Sharpe Ratio calculates the fund’s return in excess of the risk-free return and divides the excess return by the portfolio’s standard deviation. The Sharpe Ratio is a measure of relative performance. It enables investors to compare across investment opportunities. Higher the Sharpe Ratio, better is the ‘Reward to Variability’. A fund with a higher Sharpe Ratio in relation to another is preferable as it indicates that the fund has generated better return for every unit of risk.Treynor Ratio is computed by dividing a portfolio's excess return, by its Beta. Like Sharpe Ratio, it is a measure of relative performance. The Treynor Ratio is also known as the reward-to-volatility ratio.
 
The news published on the date September 16, 2022 02:24 PM IST with headline  Sebi fines PGIM AMC, its CEO, fund managers for inter-scheme transfers during credit crisis is: 
 SEBI The national markets watchdog Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has found PGIM Asset Management Co Ltd, ranked 23rd among Indian fund houses with assets of nearly Rs 17,000 crore, guilty of unfair inter-scheme transfers that put investors of some of its closed-end funds at a disadvantage.Sebi fined the AMC a sum of Rs 25 lakh. Additionally, it has fined its chief executive officer, Ajit Menon, a sum of Rs 5 lakh, and three fund managers, Kumaresh Ramakrishnan, Puneet Pal and Rakesh Suri, a sum of Rs 2 lakh each. Ramakrishnan was the fund house’s former head of fixed income; he left the fund house in November 2021. Pal is the fund house’s present head – fixed income. Suri was a debt fund manager at the fund house as well, but he, too, left the firm, in June 2019.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe chargesThe Sebi order found PGIM AMC guilty of transferring good quality securities from its closed-end funds to open-ended funds, while transferring stressed securities from open-ended schemes to closed-end schemes. It also questioned the fund house’s rationale in investments in certain securities such as Sunny View and SD Corporation in 2018.Sebi's latest penalties on PGIM AMC and its officials come on the heels of its recent order on Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Co Ltd where it fined the fund houses, its CEO, its trustee company and its debt fund managers a cumulative sum of Rs 1.6 crore.
 
The news published on the date June 30, 2022 08:13 AM IST with headline  July 1: New rules to invest in mutual funds, teething troubles initially, but a safer future is: 
 From July 1, mutual fund investments cannot be initiated from a pool account. The money has to go from the investor’s bank account to the bank account of the mutual fund house, as mandated by regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). All transaction platforms backed by stock exchanges will implement this, which may see some teething troubles for investors as well as other stakeholders.All non-exchange transaction platforms including MF Utility have already implemented it since June 1, of course with some glitches. But the situation is improving gradually and may become error-free as all stakeholders catch up with the new operations rigmarole.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat went wrong earlier?Mutual fund investors and distributors have been vocal about issues such as delayed confirmations about allotment of units, inability to pay using cheque, RTGS and NEFT, and failed SIP transactions, among others.As the money moves from investor to the fund house, the transaction platforms have to rely on the payment processing entity for the details such as actual credit of money in a mutual fund’s bank account and the source of funds. Investors are allotted units only when the fund house receives the money. Also, the source of the money so received needs to be verified as being from the investor’s bank account, as mutual fund houses do not accept third-party payments. Put simply, third-party payments are those which do not originate from the bank account of the investor. These issues have led to delayed confirmation of allotment of units. However, MF Utilities—an industry-promoted, widely used platform for transacting units—has clarified that the Registrars and transfer agents systems are ramped up and the situation has improved. It added that there is no delay in allotment of units where rules are complied with. Channel checks with distributors indicate that the delay in confirmation of transactions of up to six days earlier this month has come down to a day or two.
 
The news published on the date June 29, 2022 06:07 PM IST with headline  There is growing appetite for bond market, says Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC’s A Balasubramanian is: 
 File image of A Balasubramanian. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC’s MD and CEO A Balasubramanian on June 29 highlighted the growing opportunities in the bonds market by shedding some light on the interest rate movements.Investing in equities through SIP is a must and tolerance to volatility has also gone up, he told CNBC-TV18 in an interview. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“But having said that, there was a period when interest rates were low, and today the rates are not low from investors’ point of view,” he added.The 10-year bond yield is close to 7.55 percent and 5-year bond is close to 7.5 percent, - more or less a flat curve. In general, sovereign risk today is offering a very high rate of return. According to him, in the last two years, there wasn’t any action and this year there is a continuous rise in interest rate. He said that the expectation of a hike is also now being factored into the bond curve.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2022 09:06 AM IST with headline  Why your mutual fund’s CAGR return may hide its true performance is: 
 Say you start with an investment of Rs 1 lakh today. After a year, it grows by 100 percent and your investment becomes Rs 2 lakh. Sadly, in the second year, your investment falls by half; Rs 2 lakh becomes Rs 1 lakh. How much is your return?Your average return in this period may be an arithmetic mean of +100% and -50%, which is 25 percent. But the CAGR of the portfolio will be 0 percent as the portfolio did not make any money in two 2 years. And this is the right conclusion. You started with Rs 1 lakh and after 2 years, you are still at Rs 1 lakh.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut as you may have noticed, CAGR hides a lot. It never gives you the complete picture.CAGR hides volatilityTake for example an investment where your money experiences an annual return sequence of +12%, +2%, +49%, (-)19% and +28%. The final CAGR over 5-year period will be around 12%. So CAGR actually hides the volatility in the period under consideration (where your investment moved up +49% and also fell by -19%) to deliver a smooth-looking number (12% in this case).
 
The news published on the date September 16, 2022 02:24 PM IST with headline  Axis MF front running case | Sacked fund manager Viresh Joshi sues MF house alleging wrongful termination is: 
 Viresh Joshi, a former fund manager and chief trader of Axis Mutual Fund, has filed a lawsuit accusing the asset management company of unfairly terminating his employment in connection with a suspected front-running case.Axis Asset Management Co. Ltd. (Axis AMC), India’s seventh largest mutual fund house with assets worth Rs 2.43 trillion, sacked Joshi on May 18 in the case in which Joshi and his former colleague and assistant fund manager Deepak Agarwal are under investigation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe fund house also sacked Agarwal on May 20. Axis AMC had first suspended Joshi on May 3 before letting him go.The lawsuit follows a legal notice Joshi’s lawyers sent to the fund house on May 20, seeking a detailed explanation as to why he had been sacked pending completion of the investigation into the alleged front-running case.The fund house has so far not publicly disclosed the exact nature of wrongdoings that it has been investigating, but has maintained that there have been alleged violations of securities law.
 
The news published on the date June 22, 2022 10:03 AM IST with headline  Explained: Why re-opening of international mutual funds may benefit only a few investors is: 
 Representative image. Financial markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has allowed mutual funds to accept fresh money into the schemes investing in overseas stocks. The allowance falls within the stipulated overall industry-wide limit of $7 billion. This has seen some fund houses re-opening their schemes investing overseas.Here is all that mutual fund investors need to know:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhy have some international funds re-opened their doors?In early February 2022, SEBI had directed fund houses to temporarily suspend investments in stocks listed overseas as the overall limit of $7 billion was getting breached. This forced schemes investing overseas to stop accepting money from investors; be it lump sum or systematic investment plans (SIPs). This upper limit still stands today; it has not been enhanced. But there is a small change.SEBI has now allowed mutual fund schemes to resume subscriptions and make investments in overseas funds or securities, selectively. It has allowed schemes to collect fresh subscriptions, up to the headroom available without breaching the overall overseas investment limit as on February 1, 2022 at the mutual fund level.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2022 06:46 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds barred from bundling schemes with insurance or any other products is: 
 (Representative Image) Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has advised Association of Mutual Funds in India to inform all members that no existing or new mutual fund schemes shall have bundled insurance products. Put simply, the fund houses cannot launch new products offering any additional benefits along with their mutual fund schemes.Mutual funds have been bundling insurance with schemes as one of the ways to attract investors for the long term.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor more than a decade mutual fund houses have been offering bundled insurance along with systematic investment plans (SIP). The sum assured is typically linked with the SIP amount and tenure of the SIP. Fund houses would stipulate the minimum tenure of the SIP to be eligible for this benefit, typically around three years and the sum assured would range between 100 and 120 times of the SIP amount.Some fund houses used to offer target sum assured which would reduce the death benefit as SIP instalments come in. Target sum assured at the beginning of the SIP would be equal to SIP amount and the number of instalments one wants to invest. In most cases, SIP in equity and hybrid schemes were eligible for insurance benefits.The cover would cease by the age of 55 years of the investor, or as SIP matures or if the SIP gets cancelled for any reason by the investor, whichever is earlier. In most cases, the insurance would kick in immediately after signing up for an SIP. And the only exclusion was suicide in the first year of SIP. The costs towards providing the life insurance were born by the asset management companies.
 
The news published on the date June 16, 2022 11:41 AM IST with headline  Three years after its launch, India’s second largest quant fund is changing tack. What should investors do? is: 
 Typically when an equity scheme completes three years, investment advisors and analysts start looking at it seriously. Fund managers of such schemes start engaging with investors and distributors as they have some performance to talk about.DSP Quant Fund (DSPQ), however, is approaching investors with a proposal to change a few fundamental attributes of the scheme. What’s changing?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPerformance attracts investorsDSPQ builds a portfolio of stocks chosen on the basis of growth, quality and value parameters, using a rule-based model. It chooses its stocks from the top 200 largest listed stocks.As on 31st May 2022, the scheme managed assets worth Rs 1,283 crore, making it the second-largest quant focused mutual fund scheme in India. The scheme has given returns of 12.9 percent for the three years ended June 14, 2022, compared to 10.74 percent returns given by large-cap funds, as per Value Research. The scheme’s benchmark S&P BSE 200 TRI has given a return of 17.82 percent over three years. The portfolio of the scheme is large-cap biased, with nearly 86 percent in large-cap stocks, as on May 31, 2022.
 
The news published on the date June 15, 2022 09:20 AM IST with headline  Passive ELSS Funds: What new can they offer? is: 
 Representative image Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), in a welcome move, has announced that fund houses can now launch index-based tax-saving ELSS funds. Till now, all Equity-Linked Savings Scheme (ELSS) funds in India have been active ones where fund managers decide the fund’s portfolio.As per the SEBI circular, passive ELSS funds will be based on chosen indices which themselves are made up of stocks from the top-250 companies in terms of market-cap. But there is one caveat to this. The Asset Management Companies (AMCs) cannot have both active and passive ELSS funds. They need to choose between the two options. We will discuss the impact of this restriction a little later.But first, let’s see how existing ‘active’ ELSS fund portfolios are managed, and what it tells about the future of passive ELSS funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNote – The portfolio marketcap allocation is a dynamic figure and keeps changing on a daily basis. The data above is based on schemes’ month-end portfolios in April 2022.As is quite clear from the numbers, most ELSS funds have a bias for large-caps (in the range 55-70 percent). There are a few which have a reasonably large share of mid- and small-cap stocks as well. But though higher exposure to mid- and small-caps can help generate excess returns during bull markets, they can also fall more in bear phases.
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2022 03:38 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds invest Rs 7,800 crore in 8 IPOs; exit 3 stocks in May is: 
 Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Asset management companies (AMCs) continued to invest strongly in initial public offerings in May, even amid volatility in the equity markets. They put about Rs 7,800 crore into eight IPOs during the month, including those of Life Insurance Corporation of India, Delhivery, and Paradeep Phosphates.More than half of the investments by mutual funds went into the public issue of Life Insurance Corporation of India, the country’s largest life insurance company. They bought Rs 4,112.7 crore of LIC shares during the IPO, according to an IDBI Capital report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLIC was the largest public issue in the history of India’s capital markets, with shares worth Rs 21,000 crore sold. However, the stock has declined 29 percent from its issue price of Rs 949 in less than a month of listing.Logistics services provider Delhivery, the second-largest public issue this year, pulled in Rs 2,425.4 crore from AMCs, which was almost half of its issue size of Rs 5,235 crore.The third-biggest investment by mutual funds was in the IPO of Paradeep Phosphates, the non-urea fertiliser manufacturer, which attracted Rs 589.35 crore out of its total issue size of Rs 1,501.73 crore.
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2022 09:11 AM IST with headline  Equities have fallen, but mutual fund houses’ models indicate we aren’t out of the woods yet is: 
 WPIL: WPIL bags order from West Bengal government for execution of turnkey project. The company has received an order from the Government of West Bengal for execution of turnkey project comprising commissioning of a clear water reservoir and a ground level reservoir. The contract is valued at Rs 430.87 crore and the same will be completed over a period of 24 months. On Monday, the benchmark Nifty50 index fell by 427 points, or 2.64 percent, over Friday’s close. That marks a fall of 9.1 percent so far this year. The Nifty 500 index, which represents the broader market, is down 10.53 percent this year, indicating that as always the mid-and small-cap stocks are hit harder. Among sectoral indices, the Nifty IT and Nifty Realty indices have fared the worst with losses of 27.87 percent and 19.89 percent, respectively. Though investors are continuing with their systematic investment plans, many have been waiting on the sidelines to put in lump-sum amounts to take advantage of the crash.But are equity markets attractive enough just yet? Many distributors and financial advisors rely on sophisticated tools used by fund managers to assess how far the markets can fall from here on. And if equity markets are undervalued already.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAre the valuations attractive?According to The Navigator, a quarterly report released by DSP Mutual Fund, valuations are no longer frothy. “Only 20 percent of NSE 500 stocks are above their 200-day moving average, as compared with a long-term average of 50 percent. Markets have usually turned upwards at such low levels,” the report says.ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund in its monthly outlook points out that its equity valuation index (EVI) is quoting around 114.7, which is in the neutral band of valuations. It indicates that valuations have come down but are not cheap enough yet to aggressively invest in equities.
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2022 11:28 AM IST with headline  Domestic institutional investors pump record Rs 2 trillion into equity market so far this year is: 
 Representative image Investments by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) in the Indian stock market crossed the Rs 2 trillion mark, so far in 2022. With still six-and-a-half months to go in the year of 2022, investments by DIIs in the equity market is the highest ever in a single calendar year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnalysts say that investors have been taking advantage of the correction in the market, that has been feeling the jitters over rising inflation, surging crude oil prices and geo-political tensions.Further, DIIs have been net buyers (they bought more equities than they sold) for 16 consecutive months even as foreign institutional investors (FIIs) have been net sellers.“Domestic flows are coming to the market as people are shifting from physical assets and investing heavily in financial assets. The number of demat accounts and mutual fund investors have grown manifold in the past couple of years. Rising interest rate always poses a risk to equity investment to some extent. It may (negatively) impact a small portion of SIPs (systematic investment plans), going ahead. However, India’s growth story remains intact, and we expect Indian equity to deliver double-digit returns over the next one to two years. Therefore, domestic inflows will remain strong," said Mitul Shah - Head of Research at Reliance Securities.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2022 01:03 PM IST with headline  Rising Rates: Why investors are buying into gilt funds and 10-year constant maturity gilt funds is: 
 When interest rates go up, bond prices fall. To avoid losses, investors steer clear of mutual fund schemes investing in long-term bonds. However, the statistics for mutual fund investments in May hold a surprise. Though small, gilt schemes and gilt with 10-year constant maturity schemes, both with exposure to long-term bonds, have seen net inflows.Despite being in a rising interest rate scenario, some investors are taking a contrarian call. Let’s see why.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnexpected inflowsAs per the monthly data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India, Gilt funds — schemes investing in government securities — received net inflows of Rs 175 crore in May 2022. These schemes have seen net redemptions each month since December 2021. All gilt schemes put together managed Rs 15,107 crore as of May 31, 2022.Gilt funds with 10-year constant maturity are mutual fund schemes that invest in government securities in such a manner that the average maturity stands at 10 years. These schemes received net inflows of Rs 447 crore in May and all such schemes put together manage assets worth Rs 1,565 crore.
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2022 06:19 AM IST with headline  Retail investors bump up MF investments despite volatile market, dent in debt funds after rate hikes is: 
 Representative image. Despite volatility, mutual fund equity schemes registered net inflows of Rs 18,529 crore in May, up from Rs 15,890 crore in April, data released by Association of Mutual Funds in India showed.Overall assets under management for the mutual fund industry stood at Rs 37.22 trillion (lakh crore) as on May 31 compared to Rs 38.03 trillion a month ago.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFlexi-cap funds got the highest net inflows of Rs 2,938 crore. Large cap schemes and large & mid cap schemes received net flows of Rs 2,485 crore and 2,413 crore respectively. Net inflows are calculated by deducting total redemptions from total investments.None of the equity scheme categories saw net outflows in May despite correction in the stock market. Bellwether index Nifty 50 lost 3.12 percent in the month whereas Nifty Midcap 150 and Nifty Smallcap 250 index lost 5.51 and 9.45 percent respectively. An unscheduled hike in repo rate in May added to market volatility.Vijai Mantri, co-founder and chief investment strategist at JRL Money, said, “Sustained inflows in equity funds suggests that Indian investors are getting more matured and are buying at lower levels.”
 
The news published on the date June 09, 2022 08:15 AM IST with headline  Here's how to build a passive-only portfolio using Index Funds and ETFs is: 
 Can you build a low-maintenance, passive portfolio in India, that is made up entirely of index funds and Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)?Yes, you can. Passive investing is gaining momentum and there are now many options for investors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSo how to go about building a passive-only portfolio?As I said, there are several passive index options ranging from market-cap-based indices like Nifty50, Sensex, Nifty Next 50 and Nifty Midcap 150 to new factor-based indices (Value, Momentum, Quality, Low Volatility and so on).But you don’t need all of them in your portfolio.
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2022 02:15 PM IST with headline  Axis AMC, Invesco issue rock sentiment; Status check of India's mutual fund industry
 
The news published on the date June 03, 2022 07:44 AM IST with headline  Principal MF ceases to exist as a mutual fund, says Sebi is: 
 According to the regulator, an online application needs to be made to the markets regulator for prior approval through the Sebi Intermediary Portal.(Representative Image) Capital markets regulator Sebi on Thursday said Principal Mutual Fund (PMF) now ceases to exist as a mutual fund.This comes after Asset Management Private Limited (Principal AMC) had informed Sebi that it wanted to surrender the registration granted to PMF by the regulator.Story continues below AdvertisementFollowing this, Sebi accepted the request for surrender of certificate of registration of PMF."Consequently, PMF ceases to exist as a mutual fund with effect from June 2, 2022,” the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said in a statement.It further said PMF will continue to be liable for all liabilities, including monetary penalties, violations, if any, of the provisions of Sebi Act and mutual fund rules that have taken place before its surrender of certificate of registration.In January 2021, Sundaram Asset Management Company announced acquiring smaller rival Principal Asset Management for an undisclosed sum.Principal had over Rs 7,447 crore in assets under management as on December 2020, with 90 per cent of them being in equity-oriented schemes
 
The news published on the date June 01, 2022 12:35 PM IST with headline  Eight important money matters that need your attention this June is: 
 Interest rates on home and auto loans will rise after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) increased the repo rate in May. Some banks had announced rate hikes immediately after the RBI’s decision, while several public sector and private banks will increase their interest rates on loans effectively from June. Third-party motor insurance premiums are set to increase and bank tariffs are being changed. Here are some key regulatory and operational changes that are likely to affect your financial life from June.SBI home loan interest ratesStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEffective June 1, State Bank of India’s (SBI) external benchmark lending rate (EBLR) on home loans will increase to 7.05 percent from 6.65 percent. The bank’s repo-linked lending rate (RLLR) will rise to 6.65 per cent from 6.25 per cent. SBI adds a credit risk premium over the EBLR and RLLR while sanctioning home loans.The decisions follow the 40 basis point repo rate hike in the first week of May. One basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.Third-party motor insurance premium
 
The news published on the date May 30, 2022 08:25 AM IST with headline  Fixed-income investments becoming attractive again is: 
 Representative image. There is setback in the world of investments. Equity markets are volatile, bond interest rates are moving up, gold is not shining, crypto coins are vanishing.In fixed-income investments, however, there is a one-to-one correspondence between interest rates going up in marked-to-market products and your accrual level moving up. To illustrate this, in debt mutual fund schemes, Net Asset Value (NAV) is computed every day, which is done at the valuation yield level of that day. Yield levels or interest rates have been moving up for some time and since yield and bond price moves inversely, the valuation prices are coming down.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOver a period of time, this drives up the accrual level of your portfolio. How does that happen? When the bond matures, it happens at face value. Since valuation was happening at a little lower level, it gives a kicker on maturity. Then, the proceeds are invested at a higher yield (i.e. interest) level. Moreover, when the fund gets fresh money, it is invested at a higher yield level than earlier. Net-net, returns from debt mutual funds have been muted for some time, but in the process, the accrual level has been moving up, which makes it relatively that much attractive.How to gauge this level of attractiveness, which we are stating is better than earlier? It is the portfolio yield level, which is the Yield-To-Maturity (YTM) data available on the factsheet of any debt fund, which is the nearest available proxy. You can compare the yield level of debt funds today with that of say one year ago, and you can spot the difference.Let us take an illustration of how much return you can expect, now onwards, based on portfolio YTM or net of fund-recurring-expenses YTM. The appropriate fund category to look at is Target Maturity Funds (TMFs). The reason is, in the usual open-ended funds, market movement of yield levels will influence your returns, either on the positive side (favourable to you) or on the negative side. TMFs also are open-ended funds, but here, provided you hold on till maturity, impact of market movement would be negligible. TMFs are available in various maturities, from 1 year to 10 years.
 
The news published on the date May 30, 2022 06:35 AM IST with headline  Axis MF front-running case: Shouldn’t MFs be allowed to bypass brokers and access stock markets directly? is: 
 Representative image. The last few days have been abuzz with news of Axis Mutual Fund and the alleged front-running case. While no irregularity should go unpunished, we must strive to also improve the systems to reduce the chances of repeat of such incidences. It is in this regard that the incident must also be seen from another perspective.One news report said the following: “Sources said the dealer/ fund manager punched in trades on behalf of the MF at values that were way higher than the market and received kickbacks from brokers.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf the above is true, the respective fund manager / dealer must be punished, but at the same time, the involved brokers also must be caught and penalised in the same manner. Both parties are equally guilty.Having said that, some key questions that probably have not been considered so far are: “Why are stock brokers needed by institutional investors like mutual funds that are highly regulated? Why can’t they be given direct access to the stock exchanges and allowed to trade without any involvement of a broker?”The role of stock brokers
 
The news published on the date May 28, 2022 01:42 PM IST with headline  SEBI conducts raids on 16 entities in Axis MF case: Report is: 
 Source: ShutterStock Market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has carried out ‘search and seizure’ operations on 16 entities in more than 30 locations across the cities of Maharashtra and Gujarat as part of its ongoing probe of Axis Mutual Funds front-running case, Times Of India reported on May 28.Reportedly, these searches, carried out this week, were part of Sebi’s ongoing investigation into allegations of front-running by two of Axis’s former fund managers. They were both fired from their positions last week by the company.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol could not independently verify the report.The raids were conducted in the premises of fund house executive, stockbrokers, authorised persons of stockbrokers, and traders.During the search operations, the regulatory body has seized various records, documents, and physical as well as digital evidence. All information is also extracted from mobile phones, laptops, desktops, tablets, and hard disks found in their care, according to the report.
 
The news published on the date May 27, 2022 10:06 AM IST with headline  In your 40s and haven’t saved enough? It’s not as bad as you think is: 
 Many of us put off investments and savings till we reach our 40s. Then, we panic. A person in her 40s has usually worked for over 20 years but often enough, many find that they have not saved enough for their future. Many have this complaint despite doing well in their careers and earning a good salary.While beginning the process of investing in your 40s isn’t ideal, it isn’t as bad as it may look at first either.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBetter late than neverYou need to play a bit of catch-up no doubt when you start late. But the good part is that there are quite a few things in your favour.What works in your favour in your 40s? Let’s consider the example of my friend who is in this situation.A salary much higher than what in his 20s;Linked to the previous point, a much higher investible surplus;Almost 15-20 years of runway still left to invest properly and gain from long-term compoundingAnother good thing that my friend managed to do was that he closed his home loan just a few months ago. So he indeed had a lot more surplus money with him now as the regular instalments towards repaying the loan are not part of his expenses.
 
The news published on the date May 26, 2022 06:46 AM IST with headline  Transmission of money lying in mutual funds to legal heirs is not easy, despite AMFI’s best practices guidelines is: 
 Sujoy Soin, a businessman from Ranchi, had mutual fund (MF) investments in physical form, with his wife Apeksha Soin as the sole nominee. Unfortunately, both were victims of Covid and died within a fortnight. Having died intestate (without making a will), their two daughters (both married) Vibhuti Gujral (the elder one, settled in Delhi) and Prameela Kathpalia (settled in Australia), started the asset retrieval process, as the Soins’ legal heirs.For the MF investments, they followed the transmission process stated on the website of the Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI: the mutual fund industry body). The transmission process differs based on the value of your investments: up to Rs 2 lakh or above Rs 2 lakh.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor investments worth up to Rs 2 lakh, no succession certificate is required. This is a document that a competent court issues to a legal heir and it signifies and certifies the rightful person(s) to be successor(s) of a deceased person. This is a general certificate and is required for all immovable assets. It forms a base document by claimants or heirs. It is also required by legal heirs when a person dies without a Will.With whatever other supporting documents that she could get hold of, Vibhuti approached individual fund houses, submitting copies of death certificates of her parents and her own Know-Your-Customer (KYC) supporting documents, that would establish her as a claimant. She also submitted bank attestation of her signature and signed affidavits and indemnities with sureties, and an NOC from her younger sister.PAN or folio?
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2022 09:37 AM IST with headline  Arbitrage Mutual Funds: As the interest rates rise, many are moving to arbitrage funds for the short term. Should you join them? is: 
 When it comes to parking funds for the short term, the average investor prefers liquid, overnight or ultra-short-term funds. However, of late some investors are looking at arbitrage funds, given equity taxation and exposure to money market yield. Though it can improve post-tax returns, the volatility involved in such investments cannot be ignored.Arbitrage funds for short termStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdArbitrage funds look to capture the difference in price in the spot market and that in the futures market. If a stock quotes at Rs 100 in the spot market and the same trades at Rs 100.50 in futures, then the fund manager looks to buy it in the spot market and simultaneously sell it in the futures market. By the time of expiry the prices converge and the fund manager reverses the transaction and pockets the price differential (technically known as spot future spread) minus transaction costs. The idea is to avoid stock market risk and focus on the arbitrage—the price differential. Arbitrage funds have given 3.49 percent returns over the year ended May 20, according to Value Research.Though these schemes work better for an investor with a minimum timeframe of one year, many are looking at it for the very short term, typically up to three months. Monthly data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India also shows sizeable redemptions at the end of each quarter, just like other short-term-focused products such as liquid, ultra-short debt funds. Arbitrage funds saw net redemptions of Rs 4,303 crore and Rs 6,796 crore in December 2021 and March 2022.Volatility in returns
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2022 11:35 AM IST with headline  Mutual funds collect Rs 1.08 lakh crore via 176 NFOs in FY22 on retail investors' interest is: 
 Riding on intense retail investors' interest and a sharp rally in equity markets, asset management companies (AMCs) launched 176 new fund offerings (NFOs) in 2021-22, garnering a whopping Rs 1.08 lakh crore.With liquidity tightening, interest rates on the rise, stock market consolidation in progress, return to work from office, there could be subdued interest in NFOs going forward. While fixed maturity plans (FMPs) category could see considerable launches, the same cannot be expected from other categories, Gopal Kavalireddi, Head of Research at FYERS, said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso, almost all AMCs have launched new schemes across most categories, thereby fillings the earlier existing product gaps that was created post-recategorization, he said."Gaps in investment objectives, interest of investor in specific themes, availability of funds for deployment, credibility and reputation of fund managers, and performance of stock markets could dictate the quantum of new launches," he added.According to the data compiled by Morningstar India, there were 176 new fund offers (including closed-end funds and ETFs) in 2021-22. These managed to collect a staggering Rs 1,07,896 crore during their inception stage.
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2022 11:42 AM IST with headline  Axis MF terminates Viresh Joshi: Should unit holders be worried?
 
The news published on the date May 19, 2022 06:59 AM IST with headline  Should you invest in ESG funds if you have already invested in other fund categories? is: 
 ESG funds invest in companies that have high scores on environmental, social and governance factors. Globally, this theme has been gaining prominence. But in India, it’s still a small non-core theme when it comes to investments.Many people have strong feelings about environmental and social topics. So ESG funds at times are looked at as ‘putting you money where your mouth is’ and contributing to a cause.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut if we were to consider ESG funds purely as an investment option and leave aside the moral/personal reasons, then does it make sense to invest in such funds?Let’s first look at what is (or is not) unique about ESG fund offerings.Are ESG funds really unique?
 
The news published on the date May 18, 2022 10:22 AM IST with headline  The big mistakes that direct equity investors commit, and how to avoid them is: 
 We conducted an employee investor awareness programme for a corporate recently. It was very well received, with attendance much in excess of what was expected. As part of this programme, many of the attendees opted for a one-on-one consult on their personal finances. This exercise made us sit up and take a closer look at something we’ve been seeing on and off over the years — the fact that many people make simple yet fundamental mistakes that can seriously hamper their wealth creation journey. We list out five of those mistakes below.1 Underestimating inflationStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlmost everyone we interact with is keen on being financially free in 10 years or less but they are unable to estimate the effect of inflation on their expenses. A good rule of thumb to remember would be that at 7 percent inflation, your expenses will nearly double every 10 years, even when you are conscious of not unnecessarily upgrading your lifestyle.So, if you’re spending X amount today, you will be spending 2X in 10 years, 4X in 20 years, 8X in 30 years and so on. Simply put, because people underestimate the effect of inflation, the actual corpus required for financial freedom is often much in excess of what people estimate it to be.Another fallout of the effects of inflation is buying products such as money-back and endowment insurance, which pay back a fixed amount at the end of 10 or 15 or 20 years. What needs to be kept in mind is that the actual value of the money you receive will be half in 10 years and one-fourth in 20 years. Hence, while the payout seems substantial today and the purchase seems to make sense, when you add the inflation angle, the security and peace of mind you get on buying these products is short-lived.
 
The news published on the date May 18, 2022 09:15 AM IST with headline  Given the rout in the markets, should you sell your international mutual funds? is: 
 Representative image Equity markets around the world have been roiled of late. The Nasdaq-100 in the US is down 26.48 percent from its November 2021 peak. Many stocks have done worse, mostly on account of the US Federal Reserve hiking interest rates. This has burned many Indians who have put money into international funds that invest in US stocks.How bad is the fall in international funds?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe US is a key market that is home to several of the biggest names in the tech world. These companies benefited from the high rate of digitisation in the wake of the pandemic, which was reflected in their stock prices. But many of these shares fell almost as quickly as they rose. Stocks such as Netflix and Paypal Holdings have lost 68.85 percent and 58.20 percent, respectively, since the beginning of this year, for various reasons.“Though earnings growth in tech stocks was strong, the valuations of some tech stocks were stretched. Rising interest rates have pulled down such richly valued stocks,” says Niranjan Awasthi, head, product, marketing, and digital business, Edelweiss Asset Management.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2022 07:33 AM IST with headline  Understanding debt mutual funds: How do they generate returns? is: 
 As interest rates have started to rise in India, specially coming on the back of the out-of-turn repo rate hike by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) a few days ago, debt funds are suddenly in the news. Experts say that with the 10-year government security yield of around 7.24 percent, it might be a good time to start investing in debt funds slowly and gradually.But do you know how your debt funds earn returns? Equity funds are far simpler to understand, given how easy it is to just track stock price movements on any of the fintech apps or television channels or even Moneycontrol. But not many investors understand debt funds. Remember, debt funds are not fixed deposits.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter all, returns are why you invest in the first place. So today, let’s understand how fixed-income funds generate returns.How debt funds helpIf you are beginning your investment journey, and do not understand the nitty gritty of the market, you would, naturally, be disinclined to invest in risky asset classes. And, with equity being considered a risky asset class, you would inevitably gravitate towards fixed-income securities or funds.
 
The news published on the date May 13, 2022 10:49 AM IST with headline  Have volatile markets driven investors out of mutual funds? is: 
 Representative image. Net inflows into equity funds have fallen, yet, mutual fund houses are not so perturbed.The net inflows into equity mutual fund schemes fell 44 percent to Rs 15,890 crore in April from Rs 28,463 crore a month back. The April numbers appear to underline the cautious approach of investors. The prospect of interest rate increases may be pushing investors to dump their investments in medium-duration funds, short-duration funds and gilt funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The volatility arising out of interest rate hikes plays on the minds of investors but there are no panic reactions as such. Many investors are still waiting on the side-lines for the market to stabilise,” said G Pradeepkumar, Chief Executive Officer of Union Asset Management Company. “We have not seen many redemptions or cancellations of SIP (systematic investment plans) as of now.”Equity scheme redemptions fell about 7 percent to Rs 16,726 crore in April from Rs 17,944 crore in March.Near-term troubles
 
The news published on the date May 12, 2022 10:30 AM IST with headline  Active mutual funds have an edge over passive funds in the long run is: 
 An active fund manager is often judged on the alpha or performance of the fund he manages compared to a suitable benchmark, such as the BSE 500 (if it is a flexicap fund) or BSE 100 or an equivalent index (if it is a large-cap fund).The goal of an active fund manager is to beat the market—to get better returns by choosing investments he or she believes to be top-performing selections. On the other hand, passive funds seek to replicate the performance of their benchmarks instead of outperforming them. For instance, the manager of an index fund that tracks the performance of the BSE 500 typically buys a portfolio that includes all of the stocks in that index in the same proportions as they are represented in the index.While the goal of active management is to generate alpha, it is important to know how many fund managers have actually managed to beat the benchmark. In developed markets like the US, 85 percent of the active managers underperformed the market in 2021. In fact, not only in 2021, but a Morningstar report suggests that over a 10-year period, only 25 percent of all active funds beat their passive counterparts in the US.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn contrast, in India, on average the active manager has outperformed the benchmark. In this article we will explore this divergence so as to answer what makes Indian markets so different as far as alpha generation is concerned and the key lessons we can draw as investors. In 2021, more than 60 percent of the active equity schemes in India’s mutual fund space beat their respective benchmarks.In fact studies over the last decade suggest that the alpha generation potential of a market like India is higher than that of any other emerging and developed market. A Wall Street Journal study found that during the 10-year period from 2009 to 2018, an average active manager in India generated annualised excess return of 3 percent, the highest globally. In comparison, the average active fund manager in the US underperformed by 2 percent annually while an average European large-cap manager would have performed in line with the market.One of the key reasons for the alpha generation potential in a market like India is the presence of a well-diversified small- and midcap segment. There is a distinct mid- and small-cap segment within every sector, which makes India different from other emerging and even a few developed markets which are more homogeneous in nature.
 
The news published on the date May 12, 2022 11:32 AM IST with headline  Gold ETFs came back on investors’ radar in April, but will investors continue buying them? is: 
 A swift upward move in gold prices attracted the attention of many investors in April. According to monthly data shared by Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs) saw net inflows of Rs 1,100 crore in the month. The last time such four-digit inflows in gold ETFs was seen was in February 2020.Investors shop goldStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGold prices moved up after the war broke between Russia and Ukraine, hitting a high of Rs 53,367 per 10 g on April 18. The strong price performance and rising uncertainty in the financial markets arising out of geopolitical tensions, increased volatility caused by rising interest rates and fear of a blow to economic growth made investors look to the yellow metal, a traditional safe haven investment.The actions of Indian mutual fund investors are in line with that of their global counterparts. As per demand trends data shared by World Gold Council, in the first quarter of CY2022, globally gold ETFs had their strongest quarterly inflows since Q3CY20, fuelled by safe-haven demand. Holdings jumped by 269 tonnes, more than reversing the 174-tonne annual net outflow from CY21.
 
The news published on the date May 12, 2022 01:05 AM IST with headline  Alleged frontrunning case at Axis Mutual Fund | What we Know so Far
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2022 05:48 PM IST with headline  Too early to assess impact of alleged frontrunning at Axis Mutual Fund: Experts is: 
 Feroze Azeez, deputy CEO of Anand Rathi Wealth, and Manoj Nagpal, founder of Outlook Asia Capital, in an interview to Moneycontrol, said it’s premature at this stage to assess the impact of alleged frontrunning by two fund managers at Axis Mutual Fund and one should wait for the outcome of the investigation into the matter.Nagpal said there isn’t enough data as yet to figure out the extent of the damage to investors and the mutual fund sector. What is known is that two employees have been suspended for allegedly misusing confidential information and that there has been some violation. He said the impact on a portfolio or whether any transgressions aided brokers or investors can be determined only in the inquiry.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAzeez noted that if this had happened to a small cap fund with Rs 5,000 crore, he would have been quite concerned because of the possible long-term consequences. He said one should wait for the investigation to be over and only then take the next course of action. Edited excerpts:How serious is this issue? What is your understanding of it?Manoj Nagpal: These rumours emerged around 10-15 days ago and have been gathering ground. Now, Axis AMC has clarified that they are conducting an internal investigation on a suo motu basis. That means they themselves have initiated this investigation based on their internal findings. They have also appointed two forensic auditors to go through this. And, there appears to be interim feedback from auditors saying that there were some kind of process violations. Based on this, two fund managers – one of them a chief dealer – have been suspended. The final report is to come in 4-5 weeks.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2022 05:17 PM IST with headline  Is now a good time to buy gold? is: 
 Gold prices have turned volatile in the past one month on expectations of a series of steep interest rate hikes in the US.The US Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate by 50 basis points on May 4. Hundred basis points are equal to one percent point.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGold prices have been volatile despite the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict. But that does not mean gold should be ignored as an asset class. Here’s why:Why is gold not sticking to the script?Gold prices started rising in 2018 and then shot up after the Covid-19 pandemic was declared and the global economy was locked down. From December 2019 to August 2020, gold prices on the multi Commodity Exchange of India went up by 49 percent.Experts predicted gold’s good run would continue after the Russia-Ukraine war started. However, that did not happen. Gold prices have been volatile in the months of March and April.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2022 09:12 AM IST with headline  Mother’s Day 2022: Caught between kids and parents, Gen S mums have six financial lessons to learn is: 
 The Sandwich generation, also known as Gen S, is perhaps in the toughest phase of their lives – emotionally, physically and financially. This is especially true for mothers of this generation as they juggle with the dual responsibility of caring for an elderly parent and simultaneously planning for their children’s future.The dramatic rise in a household’s lifestyle expenses in recent years, especially in urban geographies, puts pressure on this generation to carefully navigate the needs of children and aging parents. This makes it imperative for them to put in place a holistic financial plan, for both short-term and long-term obligations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis Mother’s Day, here are a few tips for the sandwiched generation.Multiple responsibilitiesThe Sandwich generation of mothers are mainly in the thirties or forties. They have to look after the physical and emotional needs of the aged and the children. They have to manage medical emergencies, provide financial aid and look after legal requirements.
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2022 06:32 AM IST with headline  Four important money matters that start in May is: 
 Interest rates on loans are likely to go up and bank tariffs are set to be changed in May. In mutual funds, the swing pricing mechanism will be implemented and asset management companies will have to start investing more in their own schemes. Here are the key regulatory and operational changes set to start in May.Home, car loan rates may riseStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe State Bank of India (SBI), Axis Bank, Bank of Baroda and Kotak Mahindra Bank increased their benchmark marginal cost of funds-based lending rates (MCLR) in April. SBI raised its MCLR by 10 basis points across all tenures and the other three banks raised it by five basis points. One basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.SBI’s MCLR is 7.1 percent for one-year tenure, 7.3 percent for two years, and 7.4 percent for three years. At Axis Bank, the MCLR is 7.4 percent, 7.5 percent and 7.55 percent for one, two and three years of tenure, respectively.MCLR is an internal reference rate for banks set by the Reserve Bank of India to help determine the minimum interest rate on various types of loans. The final rate includes risk premium and the spread charged by banks.
 
The news published on the date April 27, 2022 10:45 PM IST with headline  Where should you invest in equities today? is: 
 Have equity markets gone up or down?At 56,579 points, the S&P BSE Sensex is roughly 9 percent below its all-time high last year, which it scaled in October.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt is roughly 20 percent up from the level a year ago and has gained 91 percent in the last five years.Many investors tend to focus on recent trends more than the long-term ones. But equities held over a long period of time do deliver returns. The question is: how should you react to equity markets now? Where should you invest?The start of a new year is a good excuse to deploy incremental fresh capital. It’s also the time when some employees receive a lumpsum bonus.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2022 07:52 PM IST with headline  AMFI's three new TVCs warning small savers against Ponzi schemes to be out on April 26 is: 
 More than 10 crore Indians became Ponzi scheme in last 30 years, AMFI said (Representative image) The Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) said it will launch three new television commercials films on April 26 to warn small savers against Ponzi schemes and address their key concerns.The TVCs will feature cricket legends Sachin Tendulkar and Mithali Raj, and will address "each of the three identified key fears impacting the investors’ psyche - market volatility, new age digital trends and unregulated schemes", AMFI said in a press released issued on April 25.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMore than 10 crore Indians have been defrauded by "top 15 pump-and-dump Ponzi schemes" in the last three decades, leading to an average loss of Rs 15.27 lakh per victim, the mutual funds body said, citing a joint study done by the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) and Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA).Also Read | Opinion: Amway | How to tell a pyramid scheme from a genuine, multilevel direct selling schemeTwo of the three new TVCs make small savers aware of the "pitfalls of investing in dubious schemes and new-age trends" and also "encourage them to shift towards formalised and regulated investment avenue like mutual funds", AMFI said.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2022 11:26 AM IST with headline  Multi-asset mutual funds are similar, and yet so different is: 
 Asset allocation is the most important investment decision. This decision — of how much to invest in equities, bonds, gold, real estate, etc. — drives the performance of the portfolio more than any other decision, like which security to invest in or when to invest.This diversity can be exploited by the portfolio managers to balance risk with reward, and deliver steady, long-term returns for investors, particularly in volatile markets. Investors investing into multi-asset allocation funds should pay attention to some finer details available in the schemes information document to understand the risks better.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs per SEBI guidelines on Categorization and Rationalization of schemes issued in October 2017, multi-asset allocation funds are hybrid funds that invest in at least three asset classes with a minimum allocation of at least 10 percent in each asset class. Multi-asset funds may invest in a number of traditional financial assets such as equity and fixed income, either through active investment strategies or through index funds, financial derivatives as well as commodities such as gold.Data Source: AMFI as on March 31, 2022
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2022 08:56 AM IST with headline  Franklin Templeton is here to stay in India, we are hiring and getting ready to launch new funds: Sanjay Sapre is: 
 Sanjay Sapre is the current President of Franklin Templeton India. His term ends in July 2022. Late evening on April 23, 2020, Sanjay Sapre, president of Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Ltd, made probably, one of the most awkward public announcements in his life—that of winding up six of the fund house’s marquee debt funds. These were all open-ended debt funds and weren’t meant to be shut down. Franklin Templeton believed that by winding up the schemes, it would buy the fund house time to sell its illiquid securities once market conditions improved. At the time, the COVID-19 global pandemic was declared, equity markets had fallen sharply and the debt market had frozen.Debt fund investors rushed to take their money out and fund houses everywhere saw redemptions. Franklin Templeton India was the worst affected because it had been running a high-yield strategy across six of its debt schemes, totaling assets worth Rs 25,215 crore as of April 23, 2020.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIts strategy involved investing in securities that came with low credit ratings but companies where the fund management saw potential of paying its interests, albeit higher than others, on time and timely principal repayment. But when the debt market froze due to COVID-19, buyers shunned bad quality securities of the sort Franklin Templeton held. And so, Sapre and his team started their defence that the funds had to be wound up due to COVID-19-led illiquidity, and not due to the fund house’s own strategy. The verdict is still out.But there has been some light at the end of the tunnel. Over the past two years, Franklin Templeton has sold most of its illiquid securities as markets and the Indian economy opened up. It has paid most of the investors’ money. SBI Funds Management Ltd, India’s largest mutual fund house and the Supreme Court-appointed liquidator, managed to sell off most of six schemes’ illiquid securities in the last nine-odd months. Franklin Templeton is now getting ready to move on. It wants to go back to distributors and investors and wants to start accepting money again. Moneycontrol’s Jash Kriplani and Kayezad E. Adajania caught up with Sapre at his office for a chat on how Franklin Templeton aims to win back investors’ confidence, whether Franklin Templeton looking to sell out and leave India or if it want to stay on and get back on track.A side note: Some of the questions we asked Sapre are sub judice as the matter is still being heard in court (the Securities Appellate Tribunal) and quite likely the Supreme Court, thereafter. To these questions, Sapre had no comments to offer. Edited excerpts:
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2022 09:09 AM IST with headline  Two years of Franklin Templeton debt fund crisis: Will it win investors back? is: 
 Representative image. In April 2020, Franklin Templeton India Mutual Fund shocked investors when it abruptly wound up six debt funds. COVID-19 had been declared a pandemic in March. As the viral disease spread across the world, equity markets had fallen by 37 percent in 40 days and debt markets froze. Faced with massive redemptions and illiquid portfolios, Templeton decided it could not encash most securities in its debt portfolio. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt about 9 pm on April 23, 2020, the fund house announced that it was winding up the six debt schemes – Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund (FIUBF), Franklin India Low Duration Fund (FILDF), Franklin India Short Term Income Plan (FISTIP), Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund (FIIOF), Franklin India Credit Risk Fund (FICRF) and Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund (FIDAF).At the time, Franklin Templeton was India’s ninth largest fund house, with average assets under management (January-March 2020) of Rs 1.16 lakh crore. The combined assets under management of the six debt schemes was Rs 25,215 crore as of April 23, 2020. Two years on, investors in the schemes have been returned most of their money. As of April 23, 2022, Franklin Templeton returned Rs 26,098 crore back to investors. The reason why investors got a bit more than the April 2020-end corpus was because the securities earned interest during the intervening period. And some securities were also sold at a gain, which provided capital gains to the portfolio.
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2022 01:08 PM IST with headline  82% of large-cap schemes underperform benchmarks over the last 5 years: SPIVA report is: 
 It’s getting tougher for actively managed equity funds to outperform their benchmark indices. Many actively managed equity mutual fund schemes have underperformed the indices, according to the S&P Indices Versus Active Funds (SPIVA) India Scorecard for 2021.Half of the Indian large-cap equity schemes underperformed the S&P BSE 100 index in the year ended December 31, 2021. Over five years, 82 percent of the large-cap schemes underperformed the S&P BSE 100 index.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSPIVA also compares the performance of equity linked savings schemes with the S&P BSE 200 index. Over one year, 26.8 percent of actively managed ELSS schemes underperformed the index, while over the past five years, 79 percent of them underperformed.Among mid- and small-sized schemes, the underperformance was 50 percent over one year and 58 percent over five years when compared to the S&P BSE 400 MidSmallCap Index.The SPIVA scorecard considers plans with the highest assets while computing their performance. If a regular plan has greater assets under management than a direct plan, then the performance of the regular plan is considered. The performance of direct plans is considered if it has higher assets under management than that of a regular plan. This means that the SPIVA report largely accounts for the performance of regular plans, which are compared with the total returns index in India.
 
The news published on the date April 14, 2022 07:37 AM IST with headline  Apps that allow you to invest loose change in mutual funds, gold and US stocks: Should you download them? is: 
 Many people tend to procrastinate when it comes to investing. Some explain away their inaction by saying they just don’t have enough money to invest.Sometimes, all you need is a just a nudge to stop procrastinating and act. New-age fintechs like Appreciate, Jar and Niyo are here to give you just that nudge.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYou can invest small sums of money, which we usually call change money, in assets ranging from digital gold and mutual funds to US stocks.What is change investing?The concept of change investing is based on micro-investing. These fintechs monitor your spending. Everytime you spend money to make a purchase, say clothes, food or anything else, they also nudge you to invest a small sum in assets.
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2022 03:19 PM IST with headline  High inflows mark equity MFs, but AMC stocks feel the heat. Why? is: 
 (Representative Image) Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook The mutual fund industry has ended FY22 on a strong note. Net inflows into equity schemes that have been positive since March’21 surged to a record high in March this year. Investors pumped Rs 28,252 crore into equity schemes in the last month of FY22, the highest ever inflow into equity funds. Equity inflows surge to record high level (image) Interestingly, equity inflows in March showed resilience in the face of a growing list of concerns that included heightened volatility in..
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2022 10:38 AM IST with headline  Prashant Jain of HDFC MF is prepared for volatility and is betting on sectors like capital goods and energy is: 
 Image credit: Suneesh K The collective size of just the three equity schemes that Prashant Jain, executive director and chief investment officer at HDFC Asset Management Co Ltd, manages is over Rs 88,400 crore. Among his three marquee schemes, Jain has managed HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund since its inception, i.e., over 28 years. In the Rs 37 trillion mutual fund industry, no other fund manager has managed a single mutual fund scheme for as long. After a weak performance phase due to a narrow run on equity markets that punished the value style of investing, Jain’s schemes have made a comeback.Recently, Jain was a guest on Moneycontrol Pro Masters Virtual, where he spoke on the Russia-Ukraine crisis, the impact of inflation and rising oil prices on the Indian economy and markets, and what investors should do.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Russia-Ukraine war may have started in February, but equity markets have been volatile since October 2021, presumably on the expectation of the US Fed raising interest rates from early 2022. Then, of course, the Russia-Ukraine war worsened it. The S&P BSE Sensex had touched 61,000 in October 2021, fell to 56,000 in December, rallied above 60,000 in January, fell to 52,000 in March and is back again at 60,000. Your comments on this volatility.Equity markets staged a smart recovery from Covid lows when they traded below 50 percent market cap to GDP to around 110 percent during the last quarter of 2021. These levels are above long-term averages. Also, the crisis-induced loose fiscal and monetary conditions are expected to normalise. Therefore, some heightened volatility around these levels is reasonable to expect. The recovery in recent weeks is, among other things, a result of the view that the ongoing war will have a limited impact on the Indian economy and (that there will be) a tapering in FPI outflows.Given the time correction over the last few quarters, currently, the market cap-to-GDP ratio of Indian markets is approximately 95 percent, which is reasonable. Markets have held up well despite significant FPI selling due to healthy domestic flows — direct and through mutual funds. This is an encouraging development and it reflects how equities have gained wider acceptance.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2022 06:12 PM IST with headline  SEBI constitutes working groups to review MF's sponsor eligibility, role of trustees is: 
 SEBI on Friday formed two working groups to review the role and eligibility of a sponsor of a mutual fund to facilitate growth and innovation in the industry and to streamline the role and obligations of trustees of such financial instruments.The working group for reviewing the role and eligibility of an MF’s sponsor will be chaired by A Balasubramanian, MD and CEO of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC and chairman of industry body AMFI, while the other group constituted to streamline the role and obligations of trustees of MFs will be headed by Manoj Vaish, Independent Trustee of Mirae Mutual Fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Considering the changing dynamics of the mutual fund industry, a need has been felt that in addition to the existing eligibility requirements to sponsor a mutual fund, an alternative set of eligibility requirements may be introduced to enable new players, who otherwise may not have been eligible, to act as sponsor,” SEBI said in a statement.This is expected to not only foster competition in the mutual fund industry but also facilitate consolidation in the industry through mergers and acquisitions so as to reap economies of scale and scope.Also, it is expected to facilitate fresh flow of capital into the industry and to foster innovation, it added.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2022 03:48 PM IST with headline  MF investors load up on equity mutual funds in March, dump bond funds is: 
 Representative image. Equity mutual funds have closed the financial year 2022-2023 on a mixed note. Equity schemes of Indian mutual funds saw net inflows of Rs 28,463 crore in March 2022 compared to net inflows of Rs 19,705 crore in the previous month. The overall assets under management remained almost flat at Rs 37.56 lakh crore as on March 31, 2022, due to outflows from bond funds.Systematic investment plan (SIP) has been a preferred means for investing in mutual funds especially in equity funds for most individual investors. SIP contribution for the month of March 2022 was recorded at Rs 12,327 crore compared to Rs 11,438 crore in the previous month. The number of SIP accounts has gone up to 5.27 crore in March 2022 compared to 5.17 crore in February 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndex funds have seen net inflows of Rs 12,313 crore in March 2022 compared to net inflows of Rs 5,747 crore in the previous month. All open-ended equity scheme categories have seen net inflows in March 2022. A large chunk of money however came through new fund offers (NFO) in March 2022. NFO of SBI Multi-cap Fund raised Rs 8,170 crore. Multi-cap funds as a category saw net inflows of Rs 9,694 crore in March compared to Rs 585 crore in February 2022.Equity markets remained volatile on account of the Russia-Ukraine war and the expectation of an economic slowdown globally. Equity mutual fund investors however continued to invest in stocks through equity mutual funds.The mutual fund industry has seen net outflows from debt funds of Rs 1.14 lakh crore in March 2022 compared to net outflows of Rs 8,274 crore. Part of this selling pressure is on account of financial year ending wherein many corporate entities pull out money to pay off their liabilities and spruce up balance sheets. Liquid funds and overnight funds have seen net outflows of Rs 44,603 crore and Rs 12,852 crore respectively. Many corporate entities park their short term surplus money into liquid and overnight funds.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2022 04:43 PM IST with headline  Equity mutual funds attract Rs 28,463-crore net inflow in March; debt funds see Rs 1.15 lakh crore outflow is: 
 Equity mutual funds attracted a net sum of Rs 28,463 crore in March, making it the 13th consecutive monthly net inflow, amid a volatile stock market environment and continued FPIs (foreign portfolio investors) selling.In comparison, equity mutual funds saw a net inflow of Rs 19,705 crore in February, Rs 14,888 crore in January and Rs 25,077 crore in December 2021, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed on Friday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEquity schemes have been witnessing net inflow since March 2021, highlighting the positive sentiment among investors.Prior to this, such schemes had consistently witnessed outflows for eight months from July 2020 to February 2021 losing Rs 46,791 crore.Within the equity segment, all categories saw net inflows.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2022 12:52 PM IST with headline  Whistle blower alleges wrongdoings at Invesco MF, complains to regulators is: 
 Invesco Mutual Fund has been rocked by reports of whistle blower allegations of mismanagement in its fixed income schemes during 2018-19, sources said.The allegations pertain to wrongdoings by the fixed income team, according to people familiar with the matter. The whistle blower has filed complaints with the Securities and Exchange Board of India and the US Securities and Exchange Commission.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe first allegation is that the former chief investment officer of Invesco MF’s fixed income schemes also acted as an advisor to its offshore portfolio management services focussed on Indian debt. As per Sebi guidelines, there should be a Chinese wall between portfolio management services and mutual funds, which means different personnel, different systems and different trade execution. The CIO was said to have resigned in 2019.The second allegation is centred on the execution of trades. It was alleged that Invesco India’s fixed income team executed trades on behalf of their offshore funds, in violation of regulations requiring the execution to be done by the offshore counterparts because their relationship was advisory in nature.The third allegation is that after the default by Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services in 2018, the fixed income team of Invesco MF identified securities of other companies including Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd. that were likely to come under stress and transferred them to the offshore funds. While the transfer itself was not illegal at the time, the matter of concern was that the clean-up was done at the cost of offshore clients.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2022 05:54 PM IST with headline  Franklin Templeton's shut schemes have Rs 231 crore cash for distribution to unitholders: Sanjay Sapre is: 
 Sanjay Sapre Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund on Monday said its six shut debt schemes have Rs 231.13 crore of cash available for distribution to unitholders of the schemes.So far, the fund house has distributed Rs 26,098 crore to the investors across the six schemes, amounting to 103.50 per cent of the asset under management (AUM) as on April 23, 2020, when it announced shutting down of the schemes, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd President Sanjay Sapre said in a letter to the investors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn 5 out of 6 funds, the schemes have returned over 100 per cent of the AUM at the time of winding up of the schemes, he added.Sapre assured investors that efforts to monetise the remaining securities continue unabated and the AMC continues to support the ongoing liquidation process by the court-appointed liquidator.”We also continue to make all efforts for recovery of proceeds from issuers who have defaulted or from securities which are held in segregated portfolios in the best interest of investors. The schemes have over Rs 231.13 crore of cash available as of March 31, 2022,” he added.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2022 09:37 AM IST with headline  Four unavoidable money tasks to do at the start of a new financial year is: 
 As we step in to the new financial year, there are certain essential tasks that we must perform in the beginning, so that our financial matters remain stress free for the rest of the year. Here are four such unavoidable tasks:Review your savings rate Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSavings rate is one of the most critical driver in wealth creation. The thumb rule is to have a minimum savings rate equivalent to your age. For instance, if you are 38 years old, you should save a minimum of 38 percent of your income. The higher, the better.If it's less, it is important to understand why it's less. Maybe because your discretionary expenses or your equated monthly instalments (EMI) are too high. Perhaps you had some emergency, and your emergency fund, if any, was not sufficient. There can be multiple reasons, which one needs to address.Review your financial goals
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2022 07:49 AM IST with headline  Investors should be in large-cap funds despite volatility: Rajesh Cheruvu of Validus Wealth is: 
 The beginning of the new financial year is always a good time for investors to revisit their financial goals and carve out their financial plans. Rajesh Cheruvu, chief investment officer at Validus Wealth, shares his views on various asset classes and what precautions investors should take while constructing their portfolios. Edited excerpts from an interview:With the start of FY23, what key actions must investors take in their portfolios? What’s the outlook for equity investors and challenges ahead?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWe are positive on equities. There are concerns such as high oil prices, inflation, worries around future growth and geo-political tensions, but they are already priced into the current market prices to some extent. So we see it as an opportunity from the medium- to longer-term perspective for equity investors. We advise investors to allocate more to large-cap stocks over mid-cap stocks.Some stocks have fallen much more than the headline index. Expectations of quantitative tightening in the US have led to an increase in the cost of capital for business. The market will wait for the details of quantitative tightening – the magnitude and pace. This should keep the market volatile.Do you recommend booking of profit from any investment theme or any asset that has done well in FY22?
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2022 09:57 AM IST with headline  Sebi bans mutual fund scheme launches till pool accounts are discontinued is: 
 (Representative Image) The capital markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has barred the launch of mutual fund schemes till at July 1.In a letter to the industry body Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI) late last night, Sebi barred new mutual fund schemes till the use of pool accounts are discontinued.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe markets watchdog had asked mutual fund houses to ensure that no distributor, online platform, stockbroker or investment advisor pools investors’ money in a bank account and then transfer it to the fund house for purchasing units of schemes for those investors. This is to ensure that the money does not get misused. The regulator asked the mutual fund industry to implement this from April 1, 2022.AMFI had appealed to Sebi late last month for a postponement of the deadline since the broking and distribution industry were still in the middle of implementing the alternative mechanisms.While Sebi gave relief to the MF industry till July 1, it also made it clear in its letter to AMFI that since it had given “sufficient time” to mutual funds to implement its October 2021 order on pool accounts, and “wide consultations were held with all stakeholders, including AMFI, before issuing the circulars dated October 2021”.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2022 06:58 AM IST with headline  Your money calendar for 2022-23: Keep your dates with your moneybox, investments, taxes is: 
 Come April 1, the new financial year will be upon us. As we complete two years under Covid-19, life is getting back to normal slowly and steadily. The COVID-19 pandemic taught us many money lessons and why not to neglect our finances.The start of a new financial year is a good time to get your money box in order and plan for the year ahead.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPlan your investmentsThe last couple of months have been volatile for equity investors because of geopolitical tensions that led to the war between Russia and Ukraine on February 24.The global economy is rocky and it will leave a severe impact on your pocket as prices of crude oil and other commodities surge. Make an investment plan, review your asset allocation and build an emergency corpus.
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2022 06:53 PM IST with headline  SEBI defines timelines for rebalancing mutual fund portfolios is: 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India, the capital market regulator, has issued a circular that clearly defines the rules governing the rebalancing of portfolios of the schemes launched by mutual funds.Barring overnight funds, all schemes will have a mandated rebalancing period of 30 days, in the event of deviation from mandated asset allocation mentioned in the scheme information document (SID) due to passive breaches. Passive breaches mean instances not arising out of the actions of the fund managers. These include those changes arising out of the movement in the prices of the assets held.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor example, an aggressive hybrid fund may have stipulated to invest a minimum 65 percent of the money in stocks. This allocation may go below 65 percent if the prices of stocks held in the scheme’s portfolio fall.In such a case the fund managers have to act within 30 days from the date of such deviation and reinstate the allocation in line with what is mentioned in SID. If the fund manager fails to do so, then justification in writing, including details of efforts taken to rebalance the portfolio shall be placed before investment committee. The investment committee of the asset management company can extend this period for rebalancing up to 60 business days from the date of completion of the mandated rebalancing period.The directive brings uniformity in the timelines for rebalancing of portfolios and should act in favour of investors. “Fund managers will be required to stick to the asset allocation mandated in the schemes’ SID. This brings in discipline and investors get to invest in the portfolios as mentioned in the SID. This is in the interest of the investors,” says G Pradeepkumar, CEO, Union Mutual Fund.
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2022 12:15 PM IST with headline  Explained | How to trade in US shares on NSE IFSC and which are stocks you can buy? is: 
 Investing in US stocks from India has now become easier. NSE International Exchange (NSE IFSC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd (NSE), has announced that trading in select US stocks has been facilitated through its platform.NSE IFSC is an international exchange based in the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) at Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhich stocks can you buy?As on date, you can invest in 50 stocks, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet (Google), Netflix, Meta (Facebook), Walmart, and Tesla. Besides using the products and services of these US giants, you can also be a part owner through equity participation.As an investor, you will be provided with an NSE IFSC receipt as proof of ownership of the stocks.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2022 03:24 PM IST with headline  Effective July 1, your investments in mutual funds through stockbrokers and online platforms may need to be registered again is: 
 Very soon, your stock broker or online distributor will get in touch with you to change your existing systematic investment plan (SIP) mandate by which you invest in your mutual fund (MF) scheme.This is due to a change in rules announced by the capital market regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), in a circular issued in October 2021.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSEBI had asked the mutual fund houses to ensure that no mutual fund distributor, online platform, stockbroker or investment advisor pools investors’ money in a bank account and then transfer it to the fund house for purchasing units of schemes for those investors. This is to ensure that the money does not get misused. The regulator asked the mutual fund industry to implement this from April 1, 2022. However, the deadline has been pushed back to July 1.This diktat called for big changes in the operations of mutual funds. Though the industry is nearing the deadline and all stakeholders are scrambling to put in place the new regime of money flow, investors may see some teething troubles.Will your SIP go through?
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2022 08:47 AM IST with headline  Inside the head of a value fund manager is: 
 Value investing is coming back in action and savvy investors are taking a serious look at it again after a gap of almost a decade. Fund houses are also offering value funds with a twist.Fund houses such as DSP, ITI, Canara Robeco, Axis and Quant have launched their value funds after the pandemic struck. As per Association of Mutual Funds in India, 22 value schemes managed Rs 75,627 crore in total as of February 28.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere’s good reason why fund houses and some distributors are enthused by value funds. Most value portfolios underperformed growth portfolios for several years in a row. But as the tide turned after COVID and investors started looking at yields on assets rather than future growth, stock portfolios built around value became increasingly favoured by investors. Over the year ended March 25, value funds have given 24.57 percent returns compared to 21.43 percent returns by flexi-cap funds, as per Value Research.From quality to value
 
The news published on the date March 24, 2022 08:54 AM IST with headline  Where to invest Rs 10 lakh in this market? InCred Wealth’s CEO Nitin Rao explains is: 
 Whether it is the COVID-19 pandemic or clouds of the Russia-Ukraine crisis hovering over the markets, one thing remains certain — an investor must be prepared for a higher probability of events causing disruption in the world and correspondingly affecting markets at large. Volatility is likely to be around for the rest of the calendar year 2022.Regardless of any such events disrupting the global landscape, disciplined asset allocation based on your unique risk profile and risk tolerance level is the only way to protect and grow your wealth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the short term we are expecting upward pressure on commodity prices which could have an impact on India since it feeds into inflation.Following sound asset allocationAs a practice for disciplined investing, asset allocation is critical and ‘events’ should not be triggers to either panic or rebalance. Following your long-term equity strategies should be the ideal way. Based on your risk profile you can allocate your investments across equity products, debt products, gold and alternatives. A sample asset allocation chart is given below.
 
The news published on the date March 24, 2022 08:44 AM IST with headline  When mutual funds merge fixed maturity plans with debt funds, what should investors do? is: 
 (Representative Image) Earlier this month, HDFC Mutual Fund, the country’s third largest fund house, announced the merger of six of its fixed maturity plans (FMP) into HDFC Corporate Bond fund. Elsewhere, and also in March, Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund announced the merger of 17 of its own FMPs into its low duration Fund and a target maturity fund. Last year, Kotak Mutual Fund too merged a FMP into a corporate bond fund.Before discussing the pros and cons of such a move, let’s understand why this is happening.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFixed Maturity Plans are close-ended funds and on maturity, the proceeds are supposed to be returned to the investor.Unlike open-ended funds that have no expiry date, FMPs have an expiry date after which the investor gets the money back. In open-ended funds, the investor can redeem as and when required.The issue with FMPs is liquidity. There is no redemption with the asset management company (AMC). For the sake of regulation, FMPs are listed on the stock exchanges, but practically, there is no liquidity and exiting before maturity is difficult.
 
The news published on the date March 23, 2022 04:34 PM IST with headline  Motilal Oswal MF stops existing SIP and STP investments in three international schemes is: 
 (Representative Image) Investors using systematic investment plans (SIP) and systematic transfer plan (STP) to invest in three international schemes of Motilal Oswal Mutual Fund (MOMF) can’t continue with their investment plans anymore. MOMF has decided to stop the existing SIP and STP in three schemes - Motilal Oswal S&P 500 Index Fund, Motilal Oswal MSCI EAFE Top 100 Select Index Fund and Motilal Oswal Nasdaq 100 Fund of Fund. The fund house has notified that no existing SIP or STP will be accepted or processed after the closing hours of March 31, 2022.The fund house had stopped lumpsum investments in these three schemes after the closing hours of January 14, 2022. The fund house decided to temporarily stop the lumpsum investments in these schemes as the limit offered to mutual funds for overseas investments was nearing. The fund house now stops the staggered investments as well. “The existing registered SIP or STP would remain active in the system and shall be reactivated after the receipt of further communication of enhancement of limit by Regulators in this regard,” the notice from the fund house stated.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn January 2022, Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) also asked the mutual fund houses to stop accepting fresh lumpsum investments in schemes dedicated to investing in overseas stocks. The industry body has also asked the mutual funds to stop accepting fresh systematic investment mandates from the investors. This suspension will be applicable from Wednesday – February 2, 2022.The capital market regulator, Securities & Exchange Board of India (Sebi) had set up a limit of US $1 billion per fund house and US$7 billion for the mutual fund industry. Further, there is a separate limit of US $1 billion for mutual fund schemes investing in exchange traded funds listed overseas. Sebi can hike this limit after consulting with the Reserve Bank of India.As far as the existing investments in units of aforementioned schemes of MOMF are concerned, there is no impact. The investors can switch out or redeem from these schemes. The investors can also buy and sell units of exchange traded funds investing in overseas stocks on the stock exchange, as this does not mean incremental investments overseas by mutual fund.
 
The news published on the date March 23, 2022 11:54 AM IST with headline  Personal Finance: Making a choice between gold funds and gold ETFs is: 
 Representative Image The geopolitical crisis arising from the Russia-Ukraine conflict has had its palpable impact on the world’s equity markets. With the war being prolonged, it is quite likely that commodity prices would continue to be elevated, impacting corporate health and leading to inflationary pressures. Most asset classes would be volatile in the near term, forcing investors to veer away from risky assets such as equities into gold. Traditionally, Indians have always valued gold as an “auspicious asset” purchased during festivals and..
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2022 07:22 PM IST with headline  Investing in these multicap schemes could have given up to 35% returns
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2022 08:28 AM IST with headline  The direct way to invest in global stocks is: 
 It has been a month since mutual funds, providing access to global equity strategies, have stopped accepting new money since they had reached the RBI-defined limit of $7 billion for the mutual fund industry. Until this limit is modified this avenue for investments remains closed.The ETFs tracking global indices are still trading on the Indian exchanges and can be bought and sold. However, they cannot grow their AUM. It is merely a transfer of ownership interest from one individual to another. There can be no net inflow into the ETFs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read | How restricting fresh lumpsums in international mutual funds impacts investorsGetting startedThis brings to the fore the direct way to invest in the global markets. While US-based Interactive Brokers has been around for several years, in the last few years several investment platforms like Stockal and Vested operating via US-broker DriveWealth have also emerged.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2022 05:25 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Why investors are flocking to index funds is: 
 Dear Readers,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe coronavirus pandemic has structurally changed our lives. The way we live, work and think has all changed. The time at home was also spent in reading, educating ourselves and contemplating. It is perhaps this awareness that is also reflected in the way we invest.Over the last year, mutual fund investing has seen a visible change. Investors have moved from active investing to passive investing.In an actively managed fund, an experienced fund manager takes all buying and selling decisions based on his outlook of the market. Whereas in a passive fund, also known as index funds, stocks are bought and sold based on their weightage in the index. Passive investing is done through exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that invest in the index and do not require close monitoring. These funds mimic the performance of the indices.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2022 06:28 AM IST with headline  Index funds: Check their tracking errors instead of returns is: 
 The appeal of passive investments—putting money in funds where the manager does not make any active calls—is that they will deliver market-related returns (won’t underperform the benchmark index) and their expense ratio is lower than actively managed funds.The differential between the market index and such a fund is the extent of their expense ratios and possibly a little more due to a small cash component to manage redemptions. To this end, the performance of index funds has been improving.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo be sure, the performance of passive funds is not measured conventionally—we do not look at the returns delivered. We look at a metric called the tracking error, which gauges how much the returns have deviated from those of the benchmark index.Ideally, the returns of such funds should match those of the underlying index but due to expenses and cash equivalent component, it may be a little lower, say 99.9 percent. Obviously, the lower the tracking error, the better.Statistically, the tracking error is defined as the annualised standard deviation of the difference in returns between the index fund and its corresponding index.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2022 08:45 PM IST with headline  Hari Shyamsunder to be new CEO of Navi Mutual Fund is: 
 Representative Image Navi Mutual Fund announced that Hari Shyamsunder, currently the Fund Manager of Navi AMC Limited, will take over as CEO, subject to obtaining the necessary corporate approvals. He will succeed Saurabh Jain who recently resigned.Saurabh Jain will be moving to another role within the Navi Group where he will lead a new business vertical. Jain is also a member of the MF advisory committee of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Sachin Bansal, Co-founder of the Navi Group said, “I am looking forward to Hari taking charge and continuing the exciting journey of Navi AMC. He is a mutual fund industry veteran with a proven track record in portfolio handling and research. I am confident that Hari will further strengthen our mutual fund business.”“I also take this opportunity to thank Saurabh for setting up a great foundation for Navi AMC Limited. He has got the business to a strong start and I look forward to him creating a similar impact in his new strategic role within the group. I wish both Saurabh and Hari good luck in their new roles and being part of the exciting journey ahead for the Navi Group," he said
 
The news published on the date February 18, 2022 12:07 PM IST with headline  Personal Finance | Look before you leap into new-age thematic funds is: 
 Artificial intelligence, blockchain, electric transportation, mobility — these are all part of contemporary conversation. They and more such terms have made their way into the asset management universe. The trend has been captured well by some of the draft offer documents that have been lately filed for the securities regulator’s approval. A host of modern-day mantras that are very likely to rule large swathes of the world economy in future will soon reach the realm of common investors, courtesy fund..
 
The news published on the date February 18, 2022 10:57 AM IST with headline  Investors pivoting from growth to value stocks as US Fed looms: Chris Wood is: 
 Christopher Wood, global head of equity strategy at Jefferies, pointed out an ongoing shift in investor preference from growth to value stocks as rate hikes by the US Federal Reserve loom in the wake of rising inflation."The change in equity market leadership looks ever more pronounced in terms of the shift from growth to value stocks as investors have discounted ever more rate hikes following last week's higher US inflation," Wood said in the Jefferies Greed & Fear report.The report says since mid-November, value stocks have outperformed growth stocks by 16.1%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoney markets are discounting 150 basis points of Fed tightening in 2022 while credit spreads have continued to widen, a process that surely can continue only so long as the Fed is perceived to be behind the curve, the report said.The US high yield corporate bond yield spread rose to 3.67% last Friday -- highest level since December 2020 -- and is now 3.54% from 2.7% last December."Overall the current situation can best be summarised as the inverse of Goldilocks. It also continues to look ever more the case that the FANG stocks peaked as a percentage of S&P500 market cap back in the summer of 2020. In this respect, the rotation out of growth stocks will probably not be completed until the leaders of the bull markets succumb in a more decisive fashion," the Jefferies report said.
 
The news published on the date February 17, 2022 07:15 AM IST with headline  ICICI Value Discovery Fund uses ONGC’s sharp January rally to book profits is: 
 ONGC India Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × The biggest rally in shares of Oil & Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in more than 11 months in January prompted ICICI Value Discovery Fund to trim holding.Shares of the oil producer rallied around 21 percent last month on the back of a 15 percent surge in global crude oil prices during the period to a seven-year high aided by rising geopolitical tensions in Eastern Europe and increasing global demand.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil has been on the boil in the past few months as the receding threat of the COVID-19 pandemic has seen demand for the commodity surge amid inadequate supplies due to the low spare capacity of Oil and Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).According to analysts, a $1 per barrel rise in crude oil prices translated to a roughly two percent increase in the valuation of ONGC. In the quarter ended December, the firm reported better-than-expected growth of 220 percent on-year in consolidated net profit on the back of higher crude oil realisations.That said, ICICI Value Discovery Fund was net seller of the stock in January as it offloaded 74.8 million shares worth more than Rs 1,200 crore, data compiled by Prime Database showed. In terms of value, ONGC was the biggest sale made by ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund in January.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2022 11:24 AM IST with headline  Two stocks to play the robust inflows in equity mutual funds is: 
 Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook The current financial year (FY22) has turned out to be spectacular for the mutual fund industry that has seen positive net inflows into equity schemes in all the months so far. The average assets under management (AUM) of the MF industry crossed Rs 38 lakh crore in January. That represents a 22 percent growth in assets year on year (YoY). The underlying trends are all the more positive. Equity inflows healthy despite some moderation in Jan Net inflows into equity schemes have..
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2022 11:13 AM IST with headline  LIC IPO | Life insurer’s rising appetite for passive investment products is: 
 LIC | Representative image The Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India is stepping up its investments in passive products like exchange-traded funds, the life insurer’s draft papers for its initial public offering show.LIC on February 13 filed its draft red herring prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, seeking the regulator’s approval to bring the largest ever IPO to the Indian primary market.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe state-run insurer invested Rs 12,221 crore in exchange-traded funds (ETFs) in the first six months of the current financial year, higher than the Rs 10,062 crore it invested in all of 2020-21, the DRHP shows.The quantum of funds invested in passive products has increased nearly four times over the past two and a half years. In 2018-19, LIC invested Rs 3,080 crore in ETFs.That said, the share of investments in venture funds, mutual funds and ETFs was only at 0.78 percent of the overall assets of LIC as of September 30, 2021.
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2022 10:31 AM IST with headline  LIC IPO | LIC sits on over Rs 21,000 crore unclaimed funds is: 
 Representational image Around Rs 21,539 crore of unclaimed amount is lying with Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) as at the end of September 2021, according to draft papers for listing filed on Sunday.In FY21, the unclaimed amount was at Rs 18495.32 crore versus Rs 16052.65 crore in FY20. In FY19 , this amount was at Rs 13843.70 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementThis unclaimed funds includes unclaimed amount and interest accrued on unclaimed amount. This amount belongs to crores of policyholders across India, who failed to claim it after completion of its policies or their family members have forgotten to claim after the insured person's death.Every insurer is required to display information about any unclaimed amount of Rs 1,000 or more on their respective websites (to continue even after completion of 10 years) and a facility is to be provided on the website to enable policyholders or beneficiaries to verify unclaimed amounts due to them.The SCWF Act which mandates the transfer of unclaimed amounts of the policyholders held beyond a period of 10 years to the Senior Citizens’ Welfare Fund.For Fiscal 2021, LIC issued approximately 21 million individual policies in India, representing approximately 75 percent market share in new individual policy issuances. The second largest player in the industry issued 1.66 million individual policies for Fiscal 2021 and had 5.9 percent market share
 
The news published on the date February 11, 2022 05:49 PM IST with headline  Indian MF industry's AUM may reach Rs 90 trillion by 2030, says Jefferies' Chris Wood is: 
 Total assets under management of India's mutual fund industry could cross Rs 90 trillion by the end of this decade, said Christopher Wood, head of global equity strategy at US-based investment bank Jefferies. As per January data, the total AUM of the industry stood at Rs 34.10 trillion.In the latest Greed & Fear note of Jefferies, Wood says the potential for growth is also illustrated by the fact that mutual fund assets under management are only 16 percent of GDP, which is way below most countries.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn this respect, HDFC Asset Management is an interesting investment play, the Greed & Fear report said, adding that it does not, for now, have any of the Indian listed fund houses in the Indian long-only portfolio.Many countries saw a surge in retail investors due to the pandemic. The recent AMFI data showed that of the 26.51 lakh fresh accounts added, the number of SIP accounts crossed 5 crore, for the first time in history.The story here is clearly the growing number of consumer-facing services and products going online. There has certainly been a dramatic surge in retail investor accounts. They have doubled from 35 million at the end of March 2019 to 77 million in November 2021, Greed & Fear report adds.
 
The news published on the date February 09, 2022 04:09 PM IST with headline  Equity mutual funds log Rs 14,888 crore net inflow in January is: 
 Representative image Equity mutual funds attracted a net sum of Rs 14,888 crore in January, making it the 11th consecutive monthly net inflow.However, this was much lower than the net inflow of Rs 25,077 crore witnessed in December, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed on Wednesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEquity schemes have been witnessing net inflow since March 2021 and the segment has received a net inflow of over Rs 1 lakh crore during this period highlighting the positive sentiments among investors.Prior to this, such schemes had consistently witnessed outflows for eight months from July 2020 to February 2021 losing Rs 46,791 crore.Overall, the mutual fund industry registered a net inflow of Rs 35,252 crore during the period under review compared to a net outflow of Rs 4,350 crore in December.The average under management (AUM) of the industry rose to Rs 38.88 lakh crore at January-end from Rs 37.72 lakh crore at December-end.Within the equity segment, all categories saw net inflows barring value funds.While the flexi-cap fund category saw the highest net inflow to the tune of Rs 2,527 crore, followed by thematic funds at Rs 2,073 crore during the period under review.Story continues below AdvertisementThe debt segment saw a net infusion of Rs 5,087 crore last month as compared with a net outflow of Rs 49,154 crore in December
 
The news published on the date February 05, 2022 12:17 PM IST with headline  Stocks vs Mutual Funds: What should you choose? is: 
 Most investors face the dilemma of whether to go for stocks or mutual funds. Let's be quite clear that there's no wrong or right answer to this. The matter is entirely subjective, and pitching one against another is like comparing apples and oranges. To simply put, if you are investing in stocks, you are responsible for your picks.On the other hand, if you invest in mutual funds, the fund manager takes this call on your behalf. You need to be mindful of certain crucial factors before choosing either asset class to achieve your goals. What are they? Let’s find out.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarket ExperienceIf you possess the required knowledge and experience, direct stock investment can work wonders for you. However, if you dabble in stocks only once in a while or depend on a third party for advice, you should think twice before committing. Stock investment warrants you to be an active market participant.This US fund is not yet affected by SEBI’s overseas investing limits, should you invest in its NFO?
 
The news published on the date February 04, 2022 03:20 PM IST with headline  Simply Save | What does restriction of flows in international schemes mean for mutual fund investors? is: 
 Mutual fund (MF) schemes allowing investors to diversify their investments to global markets have been forced to suspend flows, following directions from market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI).While some schemes are only stopping fresh flows at present, some schemes have stopped both fresh flows, as well as flows from already existing systematic investment plans (SIP). For example, Mirae MF has stopped flows from existing SIPs, as well as fresh flows, to its international schemes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdParag Parikh Flexicap Fund is dealing with the issue differently. As a diversified equity fund that invests about 65 percent to domestic stock markets and about 28 percent in international stocks (balance held in cash), it is funneling all the flows coming through existing SIPs into domestic stocks. At the same time, fresh flows have been suspended.“We cannot remit further funds abroad starting February 2, till the time the limits are increased,” said Rajeev Thakkar, chief investment officer and director of PPFAs MF, in a recent note. Among other fund houses, Motilal Oswal MF has also stopped accepting fresh flows into their international schemes.
 
The news published on the date February 04, 2022 09:49 AM IST with headline  How equity mutual funds fared in the market fall that started in October last year
 
The news published on the date January 25, 2022 09:51 AM IST with headline  Personal Finance: Investors are better-off with passive funds over index huggers is: 
 A whole community of equity funds seems to have taken the road more travelled. Their bias towards super large-cap stocks has led them to acquire too many index stocks, especially those that do the heavy lifting for Nifty. These have lately emerged as "index huggers", funds that essentially serve as proxies for the mainline indices. For many unit holders, such equity funds are a part of their "core" strategy around which the rest of the portfolio revolves. Typically open-end and..
 
The news published on the date January 21, 2022 11:06 AM IST with headline  Weekly Tactical Pick - Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC is: 
 Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook This week’s tactical pick is Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC (CMP: Rs 550; Mcap: Rs 15,850 crore; Nifty: 17,757), the latest asset manager to get listed in October ’21. ABSL AMC has retained the fourth position in terms of quarterly average AUM (excluding exchange-traded funds-ETF) since September 2011. With MF AUM (excluding ETF) of Rs 300,300 crore, as of September end, its market share stood at 9.15 percent. Improving asset mix ABSL AMC’s equity assets have grown at a much faster pace..
 
The news published on the date January 13, 2022 04:48 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds snap up Rs 3,380 crore shares in 11 IPOs in December, Medplus attracts more money is: 
 Equity mutual fund schemes acquired more than Rs 3,000 crore worth of shares in the initial public offerings (IPO) launched in December despite negative sentiment in the secondary market. In fact they turned out to be a strong supportive factor for the secondary market as well, when the market was facing selling pressure from foreign institutional investors (FIIs).Mutual funds were net buyers of more than Rs 17,000 crore in the equity market in December on top of Rs 16,000 crore of buying in the previous month, while domestic institutional investors acquired more than Rs 31,000 crore worth of shares in the last month of 2021, the highest monthly buying since March 2020.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the same month, foreign institutional investors had net sold nearly Rs 35,500 crore worth of shares.Overall, equity and equity-oriented mutual fund schemes attracted record monthly inflow in December. Investors poured in more than Rs 25,000 crore into equity schemes against Rs 11,615 crore of buying in the previous month despite uncertainties brought on by the Omicron variant of the COVID-29 virus. Monthly flow through systematic investment plans (SIPs) too were at a record of Rs 11,306 crore in December, compared with Rs 11,005 crore in November.The benchmark indices gained 2 percent in December but were down more than 6 percent from the record high of October 19. Overall market sentiment began picking up towards the end of December, which is why there was positive close in the market.
 
The news published on the date January 13, 2022 10:30 AM IST with headline  Simply Save | How should you select ELSS mutual fund for tax-saving? is: 
 It is almost end of the financial year 2021-2022, with just three months left before investors can take investment decisions to finalise their tax-saving plans for the financial year. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEquity linked saving schemes (ELSS) are among the instruments that are eligible for tax deduction under section 80c. This is an important section as one can claim upto Rs 1.5 lakh deduction under this section. While there are several other options under 80c such as Public Provident Fund (PPF), National Saving Certification (NSC), bank tax-saving deposits and life insurance, ELSS has also grown into a popular instrument. The mutual fund industry also wants Ministry of Finance to allow a debt-linked saving scheme (DLSS), so that mutual funds can come up with similar products on the debt side as well. But for now, it is only the ELSS funds where mutual funds offer tax-saving feature to investors.
 
The news published on the date January 13, 2022 10:08 AM IST with headline  Yes Mutual Fund's name changed to White Oak Capital, tweets CEO is: 
 In a tweet, on January 13, Aashish P Sommaiyaa, the Chief Executive Officer of White Oak Capital, the latest entrant to the mutual fund space, informed that the name of YES Asset Management stands changed to WhiteOak Capital Asset Management. The change is effective from January 12, 2022. Sommaiyaa also said that YES Mutual Fund will now be called WhiteOak Capital Mutual Fund.https://twitter.com/AashishPS/status/1481467368492900352Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCEO Aashish Sommaiyaa, the new fund house’ head is the former chief executive of Motilal Oswal mutual fund. Founded by Prashant Khemka, former CIO of Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s India Equity and Global Emerging Markets Equity businesses, White Oak Capital group provides investment management and advisory services for equity assets of over Rs 42,000 crore.In August 2020, a definitive agreement was executed for the sale of 100 per cent of the equity shareholding of Yes Asset Management (India) Ltd and Yes Trustee Ltd, both wholly-owned subsidiaries of Yes Bank to GPL Finance.Also Read: White Oak Capital Group completes acquisition of Yes Asset Management
 
The news published on the date January 12, 2022 04:26 PM IST with headline  MF industry signs off 2021 on a high, equity inflows in December hit a record is: 
 The mutual fund industry finished 2021 on a strong note. Net inflows into equity schemes, that have been positive since March’21, surged to a record high in December. Investors pumped Rs 24,990 crore into equity schemes in the last month of 2021, the highest ever inflow in equity funds. The total assets under management (AUM) of the MF industry increased to Rs 37.72 lakh crore as of December‘21, a growth of 22 percent compared with December last year, and a..
 
The news published on the date January 10, 2022 07:09 PM IST with headline  Mutual fund industry's monthly SIP contribution peaks to Rs 11,305 crore in Dec 2021; Key highlights is: 
 Representative image Mutual fund industry's monthly SIP contribution peaked to Rs 11,305 crore in December 2021, higher than Rs 11,004 crore recorded in the preceding month.This is the highest-ever amount of SIP contribution received in a month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe number of SIP accounts for December were 4,90,78,547, up from from 4,78,24,469 in November, the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) said in a press release. The numbers reflect a monthly increase of over 12.54 lakh.The SIP assets under management (AUM) at the end of December was Rs 5,65,420.04 crore, which is higher than Rs 5,46,683.12 crore in November, AMFI said."Net asset under management as on December 31st 2021 is Rs 37,72,696.31 crore, the average asset under management (AAUM) is Rs 37,91,810.92 crore. Multicap Fund has witnessed growth in Rs 10,516.32 crore. The Income /Debt oriented schemes has seen outflow of Rs -49,154.10 crore," the statement noted.
 
The news published on the date January 10, 2022 05:04 PM IST with headline  Axis MF looks to collect Rs 500 crore from CPSE plus SDL 2025 index fund is: 
 Representative image Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Axis Mutual Fund is targeting to garner Rs 500 crore from the CPSE Plus SDL debt index fund, which is a target maturity index fund with a benchmark maturity date of April 30, 2025, during the new fund offer.The new fund, which opens on January 10 and closes on January 20, tracks the Crisil IBX 70:30 CPSE plus SDL-April 2025 benchmark and the portfolio is specifically designed to invest predominantly in AAA-rated Central public sector units and rated SDL securities, the fund house said in a statement on Monday without offering a targeted AUM during the offer period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, a spokesperson of the fund house told PTI that the fund has an internal target of garnering Rs 500 crore during the offer period.The fund house said Devang Shah and Kaustubh Sule will be the mangers of the new fund.The open-ended target maturity index fund will invest predominantly in the constituents of Crisil IBX 70:30 CPSE Plus SDL – April 2025 with a moderate interest rate risk and a relatively low credit rate risk.
 
The news published on the date December 29, 2021 06:24 PM IST with headline  Simply Save | How 2021 affected your personal finances is: 
 For people across the world, 2021 has been a year to forget as COVID-19 continued to wreak havoc in many countries. India was amongst the worst-hit as the deadly second wave ravaged the country between March and May 2021. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, for stock and mutual fund investors, it was an exciting year with the stock market indices scaling new peaks, except towards the end of the year. The market benchmark indices S&P BSE Sensex and CNX NSE Nifty have yielded returns of 20 percent in year to date. The broader market indices - mid- and small-cap - have yielded returns of 35 percent and 60 percent respectively. The run-up in stock markets over the last one and a half years has got reflected in the performance of the equity schemes. While euphoria reigned supreme at the bourses in 2021, experts caution against expecting the kind of returns that investors saw in 2021. It was also an eventful year for the retirement funds space, with both Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) and National Pension System (NPS) witnessing several changes. Budget 2021 introduced a tax on interest earned on EPF contributions of over Rs 2.5 lakh, taking many employees – particularly those who contribute large amount to their voluntary provident fund (VPF) – by surprise. NPS saw its investment management fee go up, though it remains one of the cheapest retirement planning tool available today. The liberalised investment guidelines are expected to provide more options to invest for pension fund managers, though risks, too, could be higher. Taxation was in the news constantly with the income tax department extending timelines for filing returns and also launching a new tax return-filing portal. This new e-filing portal was beset with glitches since the launch, prompting tax consultants to demand another extension to compensate for the time lost due to teething troubles.
 
The news published on the date December 27, 2021 08:41 PM IST with headline  The AMC duo that are best placed to gain from rising inflows into mutual funds is: 
 The mutual fund industry is going from strength to strength. The average assets under management (AUM) of the MF industry crossed Rs 38 lakh crore as of November. That represents a 29 percent growth in assets year-on-year (YoY). The underlying trends are all the more positive. Positive net flows Net inflow into equity schemes has been positive in the past 9 months. Not only has it enabled equity markets to scale new highs but is also supporting the markets amid the large..
 
The news published on the date December 20, 2021 09:09 PM IST with headline  SEBI rejigs mutual funds advisory committee, inducts Aarati Krishnan, Aditya Agarwal among others is: 
 Securities and Exchange Board of India (File image: Reuters) Rejigging its Advisory Committee on Mutual Funds, market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on December 20 listed The Hindu Business Line consultant editor Aarati Krishnan and Morningstar India managing director Aditya Agarwal among new inductees in the 24-member panel.SEBI has also inducted Navi Asset Management Company MD and CEO Saurabh Jain in the committee. His inclusion assumes significance as Navi is among the smallest- but a buzzing mutual fund house with its intention to launch a slew of passive funds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOther new entrants include Sundaram Asset Management Company MD Sunil Sundaram, Tata Asset Management MD and CEO Prathit D Bhobe and Mirae Asset Investment CEO Swarup Mohanty.The advisory committee will be chaired by Usha Thorat, former deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of India.Among those top mutual funds company officials who would no longer be part of the committee include Franklin Templeton CEO Sanjay Sapre, Kotak Mahindra AMC MD Nilesh Shah and Canara Robeco MF CEO Rajnish Narula.
 
The news published on the date December 15, 2021 05:30 PM IST with headline  Simply Save | How portfolio re-balancing can help investors during extreme market phases? is: 
 Markets have corrected six percent from their recent highs. Both the benchmark indices CNX NSE Nifty and S&P BSE Sensex have lost some of their momentum amid concerns over Omicron cases. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo be sure, the market volatility is not what was seen when the Covid-19 outbreak took place in March last year. Diversification and rupee cost averaging through SIPs are the two risk-management concepts investors are familiar with. SIPs allow investors to buy more mutual fund units when equity prices fall and lesser units when equity prices rise. So, the average cost of buying is kept low. Re-balancing of portfolio is another tool that investors can use to their advantage, especially when markets swing between extreme highs and lows.
 
